docs/sdk/analytics/android.md, before:

---
title: App Center Analytics for Android
description: App Center Analytics for Android
keywords: analytics
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 01/17/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 5392ac23-465d-464d-a533-262a94cf15c3
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: android
dev_langs:
 - java
 - kotlin
---

# App Center Analytics

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova](cordova.md)

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count and device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to you. All the information captured is available in the App Center portal for you to analyze the data.

Please follow the [SDK Getting started](~/sdk/getting-started/android.md) section if you haven't set up the SDK in your application yet.

## Session and device information

Once you add App Center Analytics to your app and start the SDK, it will automatically track sessions and device properties like OS Version, model, etc. without writing any additional code.

## Custom events

You can track your own custom events with **up to twenty properties** to understand the interaction between your users and the app.

Once you have started the SDK, use the `trackEvent()` method to track your events with properties. You can send **up to 200 distinct event names**. Also, there is a maximum limit of 256 characters per event name and 125 characters per event property name and event property value.

```java
Map<String, String> properties = new HashMap<>();
properties.put("Category", "Music");
properties.put("FileName", "favorite.avi");

Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties);
```
```kotlin
val properties = hashMapOf("Category" to "Music", "FileName" to "favorite.avi")
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties)
```

Properties for events are entirely optional – if you just want to track an event, use this sample instead:

```java
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked");
```
```kotlin
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked")
```

## Event priority and persistence

You can track business critical events that have higher importance than other events.

* Developers can set persistence of events as **Normal** (`PERSISTENCE_NORMAL` in the API) or **Critical** (`PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL` in the API).
* Events with priority set as **Critical** will be retrieved from storage first and sent before **Normal** events.
* When the local storage is full and new events needs to be stored, the oldest events that have the lowest priority are deleted first to make room for the new ones.
* If the storage is full of logs with **Critical** priority, then tracking an event with
**Normal** priority will fail as the SDK cannot make room in that case.
* If you also use the **Crashes** service, please note that crash logs are set as **Critical** and share the same storage as events.

You can use the following API to track an event as **Critical**:

```java
Map<String, String> properties = new HashMap<>();
properties.put("Category", "Music");
properties.put("FileName", "favorite.avi");

Analytics.trackEvent("eventName", properties, Flags.PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL);

// If you are using name only, you can pass null as properties.
```
```kotlin
val properties = hashMapOf("Category" to "Music", "FileName" to "favorite.avi")
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties, Flags.PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL)

// If you are using name only, you can pass null as properties.
```

## Pause and resume sending logs

Pausing the event transmission can be useful in scenarios when the app needs to control the network bandwidth for more business critical needs. You can pause sending logs to the App Center backend. When paused, events can still be tracked and saved, but they are not sent right away. Any events your app tracks while paused will only be sent once you call `resume`.

```java
Analytics.pause();
Analytics.resume();
```
```kotlin
Analytics.pause()
Analytics.resume()
```

## Enable or disable App Center Analytics at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Analytics at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not collect any more analytics information for the app.

```java
Analytics.setEnabled(false);
```
```kotlin
Analytics.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Analytics again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```java
Analytics.setEnabled(true);
```
```kotlin
Analytics.setEnabled(true)
```

[!include[](../android-see-async.md)]

## Check if App Center Analytics is enabled

You can also check if App Center Analytics is enabled or not.

```java
Analytics.isEnabled();
```
```kotlin
Analytics.isEnabled()
```

[!include[](../android-see-async.md)]

Commit message:

Add storing state note (#1140)
* Add storing state note

* Fix wording

* Fix grammar issues in docs/sdk/push/xamarin-forms.md

* Change style of docs/sdk/push/xamarin-forms.md

* Change style of docs/sdk/crashes/ios.md

docs/sdk/analytics/android.md, after:

---
title: App Center Analytics for Android
description: App Center Analytics for Android
keywords: analytics
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 02/14/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 5392ac23-465d-464d-a533-262a94cf15c3
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: android
dev_langs:
 - java
 - kotlin
---

# App Center Analytics

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova](cordova.md)

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count and device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to you. All the information captured is available in the App Center portal for you to analyze the data.

Please follow the [SDK Getting started](~/sdk/getting-started/android.md) section if you haven't set up the SDK in your application yet.

## Session and device information

Once you add App Center Analytics to your app and start the SDK, it will automatically track sessions and device properties like OS Version, model, etc. without writing any additional code.

## Custom events

You can track your own custom events with **up to twenty properties** to understand the interaction between your users and the app.

Once you have started the SDK, use the `trackEvent()` method to track your events with properties. You can send **up to 200 distinct event names**. Also, there is a maximum limit of 256 characters per event name and 125 characters per event property name and event property value.

```java
Map<String, String> properties = new HashMap<>();
properties.put("Category", "Music");
properties.put("FileName", "favorite.avi");

Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties);
```
```kotlin
val properties = hashMapOf("Category" to "Music", "FileName" to "favorite.avi")
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties)
```

Properties for events are entirely optional – if you just want to track an event, use this sample instead:

```java
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked");
```
```kotlin
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked")
```

## Event priority and persistence

You can track business critical events that have higher importance than other events.

* Developers can set persistence of events as **Normal** (`PERSISTENCE_NORMAL` in the API) or **Critical** (`PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL` in the API).
* Events with priority set as **Critical** will be retrieved from storage first and sent before **Normal** events.
* When the local storage is full and new events needs to be stored, the oldest events that have the lowest priority are deleted first to make room for the new ones.
* If the storage is full of logs with **Critical** priority, then tracking an event with
**Normal** priority will fail as the SDK cannot make room in that case.
* If you also use the **Crashes** service, please note that crash logs are set as **Critical** and share the same storage as events.

You can use the following API to track an event as **Critical**:

```java
Map<String, String> properties = new HashMap<>();
properties.put("Category", "Music");
properties.put("FileName", "favorite.avi");

Analytics.trackEvent("eventName", properties, Flags.PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL);

// If you are using name only, you can pass null as properties.
```
```kotlin
val properties = hashMapOf("Category" to "Music", "FileName" to "favorite.avi")
Analytics.trackEvent("Video clicked", properties, Flags.PERSISTENCE_CRITICAL)

// If you are using name only, you can pass null as properties.
```

## Pause and resume sending logs

Pausing the event transmission can be useful in scenarios when the app needs to control the network bandwidth for more business critical needs. You can pause sending logs to the App Center backend. When paused, events can still be tracked and saved, but they are not sent right away. Any events your app tracks while paused will only be sent once you call `resume`.

```java
Analytics.pause();
Analytics.resume();
```
```kotlin
Analytics.pause()
Analytics.resume()
```

## Enable or disable App Center Analytics at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Analytics at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not collect any more analytics information for the app.

```java
Analytics.setEnabled(false);
```
```kotlin
Analytics.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Analytics again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```java
Analytics.setEnabled(true);
```
```kotlin
Analytics.setEnabled(true)
```

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

[!include[](../android-see-async.md)]

## Check if App Center Analytics is enabled

You can also check if App Center Analytics is enabled or not.

```java
Analytics.isEnabled();
```
```kotlin
Analytics.isEnabled()
```

[!include[](../android-see-async.md)]
