docs/sdk/analytics/unity.md, before:

---
title: App Center Analytics for Unity
description: App Center Analytics for Unity
keywords: unity
author: jwhitedev
ms.author: jawh
ms.date: 11/02/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: a0e3bd7d-546a-47ce-ab24-ce9eafc28701
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: unity
---

# App Center Analytics

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [MacOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova](Cordova.md)

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count and device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to you. All the information captured is available in the Mobile Center portal for you to analyze the data.

Please follow instructions in the [Unity Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/unity.md) section if you haven't set up the SDK in your application yet.

>[!NOTE]
>To use the APIs presented below, you must add the following `using` statement to your `.cs` file:
>```csharp
>using Microsoft.AppCenter.Unity.Analytics;
>```
>You also must make sure that **Use Analaytics** is checked in the settings of your App Center game object.

## Session and device information

Once you add App Center Analytics to your app and start the SDK, it will automatically track sessions and device properties like OS Version, model, etc. without requiring any additional code in your app.

## Custom events

You can track your own custom events with **up to twenty properties** to know what's happening in your app, understand user actions, and see the aggregates in the Mobile Center portal.

Use the `TrackEvent()` method to track your events with properties. You can send **up to 200 distinct event names**. There is a maximum limit of 256 characters per event name and 125 characters per event property name and event property value.

```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("Video clicked", new Dictionary<string, string> {
	{ "Category", "Music" },
	{ "FileName", "favorite.avi" }
});
```

Properties for events are optional – if you just want to track an event, use this sample instead:

```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("Video clicked");
```

>[!WARNING]
>`Analytics.TrackEvent()` will behave inconsistently across platforms if it is called prior to the `Awake()` method in the script `AppCenterBehavior.cs`. To be safe, you should only rely on events to be sent after the first scene in your application has awakened all of the `MonoBehaviour` scripts. To track an event in conjunction with a `MonoBehavour`'s initialization, consider adding the API to your script's `Start()` method instead of `Awake()`.

## Enable or disable App Center Analytics at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Analytics at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will stop collecting analytics information for the app. To disable Analytics, use the following API, passing `false` as a parameter.

```csharp
Analytics.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable App Center Analytics again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
Analytics.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

## Check if App Center Analytics is enabled

You can also check if Mobile Center Analytics is enabled or not.

```csharp
bool isEnabled = await Analytics.IsEnabledAsync();
```

## Pause and resume sending logs

Pausing the event transmission can be useful in scenarios when the app needs to control the network bandwidth for more business critical needs. You can pause sending logs to the App Center backend. When paused, events can still be tracked and saved, but they are not sent right away. Any events your app tracks while paused will only be sent once you call `Analytics.Resume`.

```csharp
Analytics.Pause();
Analytics.Resume();
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

Commit message:

SDK event persistence flags Unity (#960)
* Docs for critical events

* Date

* One more api call

docs/sdk/analytics/unity.md, after:

---
title: App Center Analytics for Unity
description: App Center Analytics for Unity
keywords: unity
author: jwhitedev
ms.author: jawh
ms.date: 11/14/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: a0e3bd7d-546a-47ce-ab24-ce9eafc28701
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: unity
---

# App Center Analytics

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [MacOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova](Cordova.md)

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count and device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to you. All the information captured is available in the Mobile Center portal for you to analyze the data.

Please follow instructions in the [Unity Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/unity.md) section if you haven't set up the SDK in your application yet.

>[!NOTE]
>To use the APIs presented below, you must add the following `using` statement to your `.cs` file:
>```csharp
>using Microsoft.AppCenter.Unity.Analytics;
>```
>You also must make sure that **Use Analaytics** is checked in the settings of your App Center game object.

## Session and device information

Once you add App Center Analytics to your app and start the SDK, it will automatically track sessions and device properties like OS Version, model, etc. without requiring any additional code in your app.

## Custom events

You can track your own custom events with **up to twenty properties** to know what's happening in your app, understand user actions, and see the aggregates in the Mobile Center portal.

Use the `TrackEvent()` method to track your events with properties. You can send **up to 200 distinct event names**. There is a maximum limit of 256 characters per event name and 125 characters per event property name and event property value.

```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("Video clicked", new Dictionary<string, string> {
	{ "Category", "Music" },
	{ "FileName", "favorite.avi" }
});
```

Properties for events are optional – if you just want to track an event, use this sample instead:

```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("Video clicked");
```

>[!WARNING]
>`Analytics.TrackEvent()` will behave inconsistently across platforms if it is called prior to the `Awake()` method in the script `AppCenterBehavior.cs`. To be safe, you should only rely on events to be sent after the first scene in your application has awakened all of the `MonoBehaviour` scripts. To track an event in conjunction with a `MonoBehavour`'s initialization, consider adding the API to your script's `Start()` method instead of `Awake()`.

## Enable or disable App Center Analytics at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Analytics at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will stop collecting analytics information for the app. To disable Analytics, use the following API, passing `false` as a parameter.

```csharp
Analytics.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable App Center Analytics again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
Analytics.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

## Check if App Center Analytics is enabled

You can also check if Mobile Center Analytics is enabled or not.

```csharp
bool isEnabled = await Analytics.IsEnabledAsync();
```

## Event priority and persistence

You can track business critical events that have higher importance than other events.

Developers can set persistence of events as **Normal** (`Flags.PersistenceNormal` in the API) or **Critical** (`Flags.PersistenceCritical` in the API).

You can use the following API to track an event as **Critical**:

```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("eventName", Flags.PersistenceCritical);
```

If you are using properties:
```csharp
Analytics.TrackEvent("eventName", new Dictionary<string, string> {
	{ "Category", "Music" },
	{ "FileName", "favorite.avi" }
}, Flags.PersistenceCritical);
```

## Pause and resume sending logs

Pausing the event transmission can be useful in scenarios when the app needs to control the network bandwidth for more business critical needs. You can pause sending logs to the App Center backend. When paused, events can still be tracked and saved, but they are not sent right away. Any events your app tracks while paused will only be sent once you call `Analytics.Resume`.

```csharp
Analytics.Pause();
Analytics.Resume();
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]
