docs/dashboard/index.md, before:

---
title: Using App Center
description: Managing your App Center account and settings
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 08/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: ac3b155b-fce5-49fe-a316-7f4877ed76f0
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# Overview

[Visual Studio App Center](https://appcenter.ms/) brings together multiple services commonly used by mobile developers into a DevOps cloud solution. Developers use App Center to Build, Test, and Distribute applications. Once the app's deployed, developers monitor the status and usage of the app using the Analytics and Diagnostics services, and engage with users using the Push service. The following figure highlights the App Center services and how each fits on either side of the DevOps story.

![App Center DevOps Diagram](~/images/app-center-devops.png)

This section describes the basic concepts of App Center and ways to manage your account settings.

## Set up your App Center account

### Apps

You must add an app to your App Center account or receive an invite to someone else's app before getting started with our services. You can have different permission levels for each app: **Developer**, **Viewer**, or **Manager**.

### Organizations

Create an **Organization** to invite **Collaborators** and **Administrators** to work on your apps, and manage their permissions.

### Teams

Create **Teams** within your organization to better manage large organizations and permission settings.

## Manage your account preferences and settings

### Email Notifications

Manage your email preferences to sign up for automatic notifications for builds, distributions, and crashes.

### Bug Tracker Integration

Integrate bug trackers like Jira, Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS), Azure DevOps, and GitHub to stay informed when your app crashes.

### Webhooks

Create and enable webhooks to integrate with third party applications you already use.

### Slack App

Install the App Center Slack app to easily trigger builds, monitor your app, and invite new testers directly from Slack.

## Manage App Center's theme

### Dark theme (Preview)

App Center can be used with a Dark theme. Under your account settings, go to the User Intercace section to enable dark theme. Currently, dark theme is only available in Preview.

Commit message:

Gravatar Instructions
Updating docs to include instructions for updating user profile photo via Gravatar (per yellow padding finding).

docs/dashboard/index.md, after:

---
title: Using App Center
description: Managing your App Center account and settings
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 08/22/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: ac3b155b-fce5-49fe-a316-7f4877ed76f0
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# Overview

[Visual Studio App Center](https://appcenter.ms/) brings together multiple services commonly used by mobile developers into a DevOps cloud solution. Developers use App Center to Build, Test, and Distribute applications. Once the app's deployed, developers monitor the status and usage of the app using the Analytics and Diagnostics services, and engage with users using the Push service. The following figure highlights the App Center services and how each fits on either side of the DevOps story.

![App Center DevOps Diagram](~/images/app-center-devops.png)

This section describes the basic concepts of App Center and ways to manage your account settings.

## Set up your App Center account

### Apps

You must add an app to your App Center account or receive an invite to someone else's app before getting started with our services. You can have different permission levels for each app: **Developer**, **Viewer**, or **Manager**.

### Organizations

Create an **Organization** to invite **Collaborators** and **Administrators** to work on your apps, and manage their permissions.

### Teams

Create **Teams** within your organization to better manage large organizations and permission settings.

## Manage your account preferences and settings

### Account Profile Photos

App Center uses [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com/) to manage user profile photos. To get started, [create a Gravatar account](https://gravatar.com/) using the same email associated with your App Center account. Once your account has been created, follow the instructions on Gravatar's website to pick your new profile image. When you return to App Center, refresh the browser to see your new profile photo. If your new profile photo does not immediately appear, hard refresh your browser to replace the previously cached image.

### Email Notifications

Manage your email preferences to sign up for automatic notifications for builds, distributions, and crashes.

### Bug Tracker Integration

Integrate bug trackers like Jira, Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS), Azure DevOps, and GitHub to stay informed when your app crashes.

### Webhooks

Create and enable webhooks to integrate with third party applications you already use.

### Slack App

Install the App Center Slack app to easily trigger builds, monitor your app, and invite new testers directly from Slack.

## Manage App Center's theme

### Dark theme (Preview)

App Center can be used with a Dark theme. Under your account settings, go to the User Intercace section to enable dark theme. Currently, dark theme is only available in Preview.
