docs/dashboard/manage-apple-secrets.md, before:

---
title: Managing your Apple ID and certificates | App Center
description: Read how to securely store your Apple ID and iOS signing certificate in App Center.
keywords: Secret storage, Apple ID, certicates
author: oddj0b
ms.author: vigimm 
ms.date: 08/23/2018
ms.topic: article 
ms.assetid: 505ce61e-7647-41cf-8500-459f110944f4
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: dashboard
---

# Managing your Apple ID and certificates

## How does Secret storage work
Your Apple ID and certificate are stored securely in an encrypted vault designed so only App Center internal services can read the values. As with any other credentials, you cannot download them after adding to the Secret storage. However, you as the owner can assign them to services in App Center.

## How do I add Apple ID and certificate to storage?
You can add your Apple ID and signing certificate as part of the distribution workflow or from **Account settings** -> **Developer accounts** by clicking the blue + button. Secrets are store in a secure vault, to protect the confidentiality of your credentials.

App Center uses your Apple ID to manage your provisioning profile and your signing certificate to re-sign for a release which includes all testers.

## Two factor authentication
App Center supports Apple IDs with two-factor authentication protection and asks for a 6-digit code in a separate dialog after username and password have been entered.

Any of your trusted Apple device can generate a 6-digit code by clicking "Allow." Once you have a code, fill out the dialogue and App Center uses the same session next time it is needed. A 6-digit code only lasts for 30 days and will require renewal thereafter. Renewing a code is done by removing the Apple ID and adding it again, this prompts for username, password, and a 6-digit code.

App Store Connect (portal for App Store and TestFlight) requires both the 6-digit code and an [app-specific password](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204397) to log in with 2FA, and at the moment it is not supported. However, there is a workaround which you can read more about on the [Apple Stores documentation](../distribution/stores/apple.md#two-factor-authentication-workaround)

## Planned work
- Enhance secret storage so updates to your credentials are stored across your distribution groups.
- Better support for Apple ID password changes: like certificates, you can add a new password, and continue using the updated Apple ID.
- Information about Apple ID and certificate usage in App Center and a detailed secret overview.

## Feedback
We are continuously improving the experience to improve storing and re-using your Apple developer account secret and are always looking for feedback. If you find errors or shortcomings, please use the blue chat icon in the lower-right corner of the App Center portal to provide your feedback.

Commit message:

Add 2FA for stores to documentation (#877)
* Add 2FA for stores to documentation

* Add howto: Add ASP for App Store

* Update manage-apple-secrets.md

* Convert requirements to a bullet point list

* Edit from Mani clarifying why ASP is needed

* Address @jwargo s comment

docs/dashboard/manage-apple-secrets.md, after:

---
title: Managing your Apple ID and certificates
description: Read how to securely store your Apple ID and iOS signing certificate in App Center.
keywords: Secret storage, Apple ID, certicates
author: oddj0b
ms.author: vigimm 
ms.date: 08/23/2018
ms.topic: article 
ms.assetid: 505ce61e-7647-41cf-8500-459f110944f4
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: dashboard
---

# Managing your Apple ID and certificates

## How does Secret storage work

Your Apple ID and certificate are stored securely in an encrypted vault designed so that only App Center internal services can read the values. As with any other credentials, you cannot download them after adding to the Secret storage. However, you as the owner can assign them to services in App Center.

## How do I add Apple ID and certificate to storage?

You can add your Apple ID and signing certificate as part of the distribution workflow or from **Account settings** -> **Developer accounts** by clicking the blue + button. Secrets are store in a secure vault, to protect the confidentiality of your credentials.

App Center uses your Apple ID to manage your provisioning profile and your signing certificate to re-sign for a release which includes all testers.

## Two factor authentication

App Center supports Apple IDs with two-factor authentication protection and asks for a 6-digit code in a separate dialog after username and password have been entered.

Any of your trusted Apple device can generate a 6-digit code by clicking "Allow." Once you have a code, fill out the dialogue and App Center uses the same session next time it is needed. A 6-digit code only lasts for 30 days and will require renewal thereafter. Renewing a code is done by removing the Apple ID and adding it again, this prompts for username, password, and a 6-digit code.

App Store Connect (portal for App Store and TestFlight) requires both the 6-digit code and an [app-specific password](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204397) to log in with two-factor authentication (2FA), you can read how to [add a app-specific password at the App Store docs page](~/distribution/stores/apple.md#adding-two-factor-authentication).

## Feedback

We are continuously improving the experience to improve storing and re-using your Apple developer account secret and are always looking for feedback. If you find errors or shortcomings, please use the blue chat icon in the lower-right corner of the App Center portal to provide your feedback.
