vs-mobile-center-docs/push/index.md, before:

---
title: Mobile Center Push
description: Help using the Push on Mobile Center
keywords: mobile center, push
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 06/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: B2CF9BFA-4C31-484C-83F7-9DD0E10AA8BD
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: push
---

# Push Notifications

Mobile Center Push allows you to engage your users by sending them targeted push notifications.

## How to set up Push Notifications

In order to set up Push Notifications, you will have to set up the Push Mobile Center SDK, as well as the platform specific push services (Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM), Apple Notifications Service (APNs), Windows Notifications Services (WNS). These instructions can be found in the Mobile Center Push portal, as well as in the Mobile Center SDK docs.
You can follow the instructions provided in the Mobile Center portal, along with our detailed instructions found in the following links:

- [Android](~/sdk/push/android.md)
- [iOS](~/sdk/push/ios.md)
- [UWP](~/sdk/push/uwp.md)
- [Xamarin Android](~/sdk/push/xamarin-android.md)
- [Xamarin iOS](~/sdk/push/xamarin-ios.md)
- [Xamarin Forms](~/sdk/push/xamarin-forms.md)
- [React Native Android](~/sdk/push/react-native-android.md)
- [React Native iOS](~/sdk/push/react-native-ios.md)

## Sending Push Notifications

Once Mobile Center Push is configured following the instructions above, you are ready to start sending notifications to your users. By clicking the "Send Notification" button on top right of the page, a panel will show up where you will have to include:
- Campaign Name: this name will be used to track the campaign but your users will not see it.
- Title: title of the notification that your user will receive.
- Message: content of the push notification.

You can also attach custom data along with your notification. More information on this can be found later in this document.

![Send Notification](~/push/images/send-notification.png "Campaign Name and Message fields are required to send a notification")


The next step is to select your target. You can send the notification to:
- All registered devices: all your users with push notifications opt-in will received the message.
- Custom devices list: the notification will be sent to the list of install IDs that you include. You can get the install IDs by using our [API](~/sdk/other-apis/android.md).
- [Audiences](~/push/audiences.md): this will send a notification to a segment of your users based on a set of device and custom properties.

## Custom Data in your notifications

You can send optional custom data as part of the push payload. The data will be sent in the key-value format. This custom data can be intercepted in the app through Push SDK callback. Documentation for this can be found in the our [Push SDK docs](~/sdk/push/android.md).

There are few reserved keywords in each platform that can be set via custom data:
### iOS:
- **badge**: Add this key when you want to modify the badge of your app icon. If this key is not included, the badge is not changed. To remove the badge, set the value of this key to 0.
- **sound**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound. The value of this key is the name of a sound file in your app's main bundle or in the `Library/Sounds` folder of your app’s data container. If the sound file cannot be found, or if you specify `default` for the value, the system plays the default alert sound.
- **content-available**: Add this key with a value of 1 to configure a silent notification. When this key is present, the system wakes up your app in the background and delivers the notification to its app delegate. For information about configuring and handling silent notifications, see [Configuring a Silent Notification](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/CreatingtheNotificationPayload.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH10-SW8).
- **mutable-content**: Add this key with a value of 1 to enable media attachments. The application needs to support a service extension to download and handle the attachment content. For more information you can refer to [Apple documentations](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/ModifyingNotifications.html).

### Android:
- **color**: The notification's icon color, expressed in #rrggbb format.
- **icon**: The notification's icon.
- **sound**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound when the device receives the notification. Supports `default` or the filename of a sound resource bundled in the app. Sound files must reside in `/res/raw/`.

### Windows:
- **audio**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound. this will modify the audio attribute for toast notifications.
- **image**: Add this key when you want to modify the image attribute for tile and toast notifications.

Commit message:

update "Mobile Center" > "App Center"

vs-mobile-center-docs/push/index.md, after:

---
title: App Center Push
description: Help using the Push on App Center
keywords: app center, push
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 06/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: B2CF9BFA-4C31-484C-83F7-9DD0E10AA8BD
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: push
---

# Push Notifications

App Center Push allows you to engage your users by sending them targeted push notifications.

## How to set up Push Notifications

In order to set up Push Notifications, you will have to set up the Push App Center SDK, as well as the platform specific push services (Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM), Apple Notifications Service (APNs), Windows Notifications Services (WNS). These instructions can be found in the App Center Push portal, as well as in the App Center SDK docs.
You can follow the instructions provided in the App Center portal, along with our detailed instructions found in the following links:

- [Android](~/sdk/push/android.md)
- [iOS](~/sdk/push/ios.md)
- [UWP](~/sdk/push/uwp.md)
- [Xamarin Android](~/sdk/push/xamarin-android.md)
- [Xamarin iOS](~/sdk/push/xamarin-ios.md)
- [Xamarin Forms](~/sdk/push/xamarin-forms.md)
- [React Native Android](~/sdk/push/react-native-android.md)
- [React Native iOS](~/sdk/push/react-native-ios.md)

## Sending Push Notifications

Once App Center Push is configured following the instructions above, you are ready to start sending notifications to your users. By clicking the "Send Notification" button on top right of the page, a panel will show up where you will have to include:
- Campaign Name: this name will be used to track the campaign but your users will not see it.
- Title: title of the notification that your user will receive.
- Message: content of the push notification.

You can also attach custom data along with your notification. More information on this can be found later in this document.

![Send Notification](~/push/images/send-notification.png "Campaign Name and Message fields are required to send a notification")


The next step is to select your target. You can send the notification to:
- All registered devices: all your users with push notifications opt-in will received the message.
- Custom devices list: the notification will be sent to the list of install IDs that you include. You can get the install IDs by using our [API](~/sdk/other-apis/android.md).
- [Audiences](~/push/audiences.md): this will send a notification to a segment of your users based on a set of device and custom properties.

## Custom Data in your notifications

You can send optional custom data as part of the push payload. The data will be sent in the key-value format. This custom data can be intercepted in the app through Push SDK callback. Documentation for this can be found in the our [Push SDK docs](~/sdk/push/android.md).

There are few reserved keywords in each platform that can be set via custom data:
### iOS:
- **badge**: Add this key when you want to modify the badge of your app icon. If this key is not included, the badge is not changed. To remove the badge, set the value of this key to 0.
- **sound**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound. The value of this key is the name of a sound file in your app's main bundle or in the `Library/Sounds` folder of your app’s data container. If the sound file cannot be found, or if you specify `default` for the value, the system plays the default alert sound.
- **content-available**: Add this key with a value of 1 to configure a silent notification. When this key is present, the system wakes up your app in the background and delivers the notification to its app delegate. For information about configuring and handling silent notifications, see [Configuring a Silent Notification](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/CreatingtheNotificationPayload.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH10-SW8).
- **mutable-content**: Add this key with a value of 1 to enable media attachments. The application needs to support a service extension to download and handle the attachment content. For more information you can refer to [Apple documentations](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/ModifyingNotifications.html).

### Android:
- **color**: The notification's icon color, expressed in #rrggbb format.
- **icon**: The notification's icon.
- **sound**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound when the device receives the notification. Supports `default` or the filename of a sound resource bundled in the app. Sound files must reside in `/res/raw/`.

### Windows:
- **audio**: Add this key when you want the to play a sound. this will modify the audio attribute for toast notifications.
- **image**: Add this key when you want to modify the image attribute for tile and toast notifications.
