vs-mobile-center-docs/cli/index.md, before:

---
title: "Mobile Center Command Line Interface (CLI) Documentation"
description: How to use the CLI to access Mobile Center features
keywords: command line, mobile center
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 06/14/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: f98b1b59-ee20-4ed0-beb9-ec8fd4596ad1
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: cli
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI) Documentation

Mobile Center command line interface is a unified tool for running Mobile Center services from the command line. Our aim is to offer a concise and powerful tool for our developers to use Mobile Center services and easily script a sequence of commands that they'd like to execute. You can currently login and view/configure all the apps that you have access to in Mobile Center.

Although our current feature set is minimal, all the existing Mobile Center services will be added going forward. Note that the Mobile Center CLI is currently in public preview.

To get more information on CLI installation and currently supported commands, please refer to [our GitHub repo](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-cli).

Commit message:

update "Mobile Center" > "App Center"

vs-mobile-center-docs/cli/index.md, after:

---
title: "App Center Command Line Interface (CLI) Documentation"
description: How to use the CLI to access App Center features
keywords: command line, app center
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 06/14/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: f98b1b59-ee20-4ed0-beb9-ec8fd4596ad1
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: cli
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI) Documentation

App Center command line interface is a unified tool for running App Center services from the command line. Our aim is to offer a concise and powerful tool for our developers to use App Center services and easily script a sequence of commands that they'd like to execute. You can currently login and view/configure all the apps that you have access to in App Center.

Although our current feature set is minimal, all the existing App Center services will be added going forward. Note that the App Center CLI is currently in public preview.

To get more information on CLI installation and currently supported commands, please refer to [our GitHub repo](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-cli).
