docs/build/ios/code-signing.md, before:

---
title: iOS Code Signing in App Center
description: Code signing apps built with App Center
keywords: code signing,  ios
author: siminapasat
ms.author: siminap
ms.date: 01/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: aba79461-01c9-4a47-a8d9-0ef015c8c8a5
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ios
---

# Code signing for iOS

To run an app on a real device during the development process through a beta program or in the App Store, it must be code signed. You can code sign a build by uploading your provisioning profile (.mobileprovision) and certificate (.p12) when [configuring the build](first-build.md).

## Automatic vs. manual code signing
When **Automatically manage signing** is enabled in the target of your project, you have to make sure to upload the provisioining profile generated by Xcode. For manual signing you have to use the one from the Apple Developer Portal. Learn more about where to [find the provisioning profiles and certificates](~/build/ios/uploading-signing-files.md) that are required for signing.

>[!NOTE]
>To build your project with App Center, make sure that the files you are uploading match the code signing in the targets of your project. App Center will build the "build configuration" selected in the scheme.

### Automatic signing and CI
When using automatic signing the `Archive` action first creates an archive file signed with **development code signing**. Then, the `Export` action re-signs the archive with a **certificate matching the export method** (App Store, Ad Hoc, Enterprise or Development). If the used export method is not `development` then the signing process requires two different provisioning profiles and certificates: one for the `Archive` action and one for the `Export` action.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>At the moment, App Center only supports to sign your app with a Developer certificate and provisioning profile when **Automatically manage signing** is enabled. Support to sign with a Distribution certificate and provisioning profile will be added at a later time.

## Certificates (.p12)
- **iOS Development:** Used to enable certain app services during development and testing.
- **iOS Distribution:** For submission to the App Store, Ad Hoc or Enterprise distribution.

## Provisioning Profiles (.mobileprovision)
- **iOS App Development:** Install development apps on developer test devices.
- **Ad Hoc:** Install an app on a limited number of registered devices.
- **App Store:** Required for submitting your app to the App Store.
- **In House:** for In House app distribution (the profile is only available via the Apple Enterprise program).

Commit message:

Apple code signing update (#609)
* Update iOS signing info

* Update macOS signing info

* Update style

* Update meta data

* Improve overall copy

* Date in US format

* Date in US format

* macOS update

* Improve copy

* Add signing improvements to the Changelog

* Update changelog entry

docs/build/ios/code-signing.md, after:

---
title: iOS Code Signing in App Center
description: Code signing apps built with App Center
keywords: code signing,  ios
author: derpixeldan
ms.author: daadam
ms.date: 04/26/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: aba79461-01c9-4a47-a8d9-0ef015c8c8a5
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ios
---

# Code signing for iOS

An app must be signed to run on a real device during the development process, through a beta program or in the App Store. Sign a build by uploading your provisioning profile (.mobileprovision) and certificate (.p12) when [configuring the build](first-build.md). Once you've saved a provisioning profile and the matching certificate to a build configuration of a branch, App Center will sign your app with the provided assets regardless of the settings of your project.

Learn more about where to [find the provisioning profiles and certificates](~/build/ios/uploading-signing-files.md) that are required for signing. When **Automatically manage signing** is enabled in the target of your project, it's possible to upload the developer provisioining profile generated by Xcode instead of one from the Apple Developer Portal.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Please make sure that the signing assets you upload are really the ones you intend to sign the app with. The bundle identifier and team ID in your app will be overwritten by the settings in the signing assets.

## Signing files

### Certificates (.p12)

- **iOS Development:** Used to enable certain app services during development and testing.
- **iOS Distribution:** For submission to the App Store, Ad Hoc or Enterprise distribution.

### Provisioning Profiles (.mobileprovision)

- **iOS App Development:** Install development apps on developer test devices.
- **Ad Hoc:** Install an app on a limited number of registered devices.
- **App Store:** Required for submitting your app to the App Store.
- **In House:** for In House app distribution (the profile is only available via the Apple Enterprise program).
