docs/quickstarts/android/push.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Send Push Notifications to Users | Android Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial to send a push notification to the sample Android app.
keywords: app center
author: sshibu
ms.author: t-shshib
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.date: 06/18/2018
---

# Send Push Notifications to Users

First, follow the [getting started tutorial](getting-started.md) to set up the sample app.

## Prerequisites

 - A Google account.
 - A device with Play Store installed or an emulator using a Google APIs image (API level >= 15).

## Set up Firebase Cloud Messaging

Push on App Center for Android uses **Firebase Cloud Messaging** servers.
You need a Google Account and use the Firebase console.

1. Create a project on the [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/).
2. Go to project settings (the cog icon).
3. Go to **Cloud Messaging** tab.
4. Copy the **Server Key**. You will need this key as part of the configuration of Push on the App Center portal for your application.
5. Copy the **Sender ID**, as you will need it in SDK integration.

## Integrate App Center SDK

*The following directions are also located in the push service on App Center.*

1. Locate the following in **app/build.gradle** and add the compile statement:

  ``` java
  dependencies {
        def appCenterSdkVersion = '1.6.1'
        compile "com.microsoft.appcenter:appcenter-push:${appCenterSdkVersion}"
  }
  ```

2. Locate the App Center import statement in **MainActivity.java** and add the push import statement below it:

  ```java
  import com.microsoft.appcenter.AppCenter;
  import com.microsoft.appcenter.push.Push;
  ```

3. Locate **onCreate** and add the following code:

  ```java
  Push.setSenderId("<Your Sender ID HERE>");
  AppCenter.start(getApplication(), "<APP SECRET HERE>", Push.class);
  ```

If you also use other services like Analytics or Crashes then modify the existing `start` call like in the following example:

```java
Push.setSenderId("<Your Sender ID HERE>");
AppCenter.start(getApplication(), "<APP SECRET HERE>", Analytics.class, Crashes.class, Push.class);
```

## Set up Push in App Center

1. Go to the **Push** service in [App Center](https://appcenter.ms/apps).

2. Click **Next** twice and skip the first and second pages.

3. Go to the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) and select the project.

4. Navigate to Project Settings and copy your server key.

5. Paste your server key in App Center.

## Set up a push notification

1. Run your app on your device or emulator.

2. Press the **HOME** button (a circle icon on modern devices) as Push notifications are only displayed if the application is in background.

2. Navigate to the **Push** service in App Center.

3. Click **Send notification**.

4. Set the **Campaign Name** as "Using Push Notifications". Set the **Message** as "Testing".  

## Send a push notification

1. Click **Next** at the bottom.

2. Choose **All registered devices**.

3. Click **Next** and **Send notification** at the bottom.

Commit message:

Fix gradle instructions for Android Studio 3+ (#716)
* Fix gradle instructions for Android Studio 3+

* Fix indent

* Fix indent

docs/quickstarts/android/push.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: Send Push Notifications to Users | Android Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial to send a push notification to the sample Android app.
keywords: app center
author: sshibu
ms.author: t-shshib
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.date: 07/10/2018
---

# Send Push Notifications to Users

First, follow the [getting started tutorial](getting-started.md) to set up the sample app.

## Prerequisites

 - A Google account.
 - A device with Play Store installed or an emulator using a Google APIs image (API level >= 15).

## Set up Firebase Cloud Messaging

Push on App Center for Android uses **Firebase Cloud Messaging** servers.
You need a Google Account and use the Firebase console.

1. Create a project on the [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/).
2. Go to project settings (the cog icon).
3. Go to **Cloud Messaging** tab.
4. Copy the **Server Key**. You will need this key as part of the configuration of Push on the App Center portal for your application.
5. Copy the **Sender ID**, as you will need it in SDK integration.

## Integrate App Center SDK

*The following directions are also located in the push service on App Center.*

1. Locate the following in **app/build.gradle** and add the following dependencies:

  ``` java
  dependencies {
        def appCenterSdkVersion = '1.6.1'
        implementation "com.microsoft.appcenter:appcenter-push:${appCenterSdkVersion}"
  }
  ```

  > [!NOTE]
  > If the version of your Android Gradle plugin is lower than 3.0.0, then you need to replace the word **implementation** by **compile**.

2. Locate the App Center import statement in **MainActivity.java** and add the push import statement below it:

  ```java
  import com.microsoft.appcenter.AppCenter;
  import com.microsoft.appcenter.push.Push;
  ```

3. Locate **onCreate** and add the following code:

  ```java
  Push.setSenderId("<Your Sender ID HERE>");
  AppCenter.start(getApplication(), "<APP SECRET HERE>", Push.class);
  ```

If you also use other services like Analytics or Crashes then modify the existing `start` call like in the following example:

```java
Push.setSenderId("<Your Sender ID HERE>");
AppCenter.start(getApplication(), "<APP SECRET HERE>", Analytics.class, Crashes.class, Push.class);
```

## Set up Push in App Center

1. Go to the **Push** service in [App Center](https://appcenter.ms/apps).

2. Click **Next** twice and skip the first and second pages.

3. Go to the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) and select the project.

4. Navigate to Project Settings and copy your server key.

5. Paste your server key in App Center.

## Set up a push notification

1. Run your app on your device or emulator.

2. Press the **HOME** button (a circle icon on modern devices) as Push notifications are only displayed if the application is in background.

2. Navigate to the **Push** service in App Center.

3. Click **Send notification**.

4. Set the **Campaign Name** as "Using Push Notifications". Set the **Message** as "Testing".  

## Send a push notification

1. Click **Next** at the bottom.

2. Choose **All registered devices**.

3. Click **Next** and **Send notification** at the bottom.
