README.md, before:

# Mobile Center Preview documentation

Welcome! This repo contains source files for the work-in-progress Mobile Center technical documentation. The topics are published on the [Mobile Center documentation site](https://docs.microsoft.com/mobile-center).

## Contributing to the documentation

To contribute to this documentation, please see the [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).
We welcome your contributions to help us improve the Mobile Center docs. All the articles in this repository use GitHub flavored markdown.

Several feature areas of Mobile Center have their own folders in this repo, such as **build** for topics on Build, **crashes** for topics on the Crash Reporting service, and so forth. The **/images** subfolder in each folder contains art files for the topics. The [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) has more information.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Misc fixes (#414)
* Fix the order of items in the Android docs

* Fix GitHub spelling

* Fix Bitbucket spelling

* Replace some remnants of Mobile Center era

README.md, after:

# App Center documentation

Welcome! This repo contains source files for the work-in-progress App Center technical documentation. The topics are published on the [App Center documentation site](https://docs.microsoft.com/appcenter).

## Contributing to the documentation

To contribute to this documentation, please see the [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).
We welcome your contributions to help us improve the App Center docs. All the articles in this repository use GitHub flavored markdown.

Several feature areas of App Center have their own folders in this repo, such as **build** for topics on Build, **crashes** for topics on the Crash Reporting service, and so forth. The **/images** subfolder in each folder contains art files for the topics. The [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) has more information.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
