docs/sdk/getting-started/xamarin.md, before:

---
title: Get Started with Xamarin
description: Get started
keywords: sdk
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 05/14/2019
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.assetid: 466c0195-c2c7-491b-83dc-2ec03dd9ab18
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: xamarin
---

# Get Started with Xamarin

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [iOS Extensions](ios-extensions.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [WPF/WinForms](wpf-winforms.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [macOS Extensions](macos-extensions.md)
> * [tvOS](tvos.md)
> * [Cordova](cordova.md)

The App Center SDK uses a modular architecture so you can use any or all of the services.

Let's get started with setting up App Center Xamarin SDK in your app to use App Center Analytics and App Center Crashes. To add App Center Distribute to you app, please have a look at the [documentation for App Center Distribute](~/sdk/distribute/xamarin.md).

## 1. Prerequisites

Before you begin, please make sure that the following prerequisites are met:

* Your project is set up in Visual Studio 2017 or Visual Studio for Mac.
* You are targeting devices running iOS 9.0 or later or Android 4.1 (API level 16) or later.
* You are not using any other SDK that provides Crash Reporting functionality.

The App Center SDK for Xamarin supports the following platforms:

* Xamarin.Android
* Xamarin.iOS
* Xamarin.Forms (iOS, Android, and UWP)

### 1.1 About Xamarin.Android

Choose this option if you target no other platform but Android. You need to create one app in the App Center portal with the **Android** as the OS and **Xamarin** as the platform.

### 1.2 About Xamarin.iOS

Choose this option if you target no other platform but iOS. You need to create one app in the App Center portal with **iOS** as the OS and **Xamarin** as the platform.

### 1.3 About Xamarin.Forms (iOS, Android, and UWP)

Choose this option if you want to create a cross platform app for iOS, Android and UWP devices. You need to create 3 apps in App Center – one for each OS.

You need to select **Xamarin** as the platform for Android and iOS applications (UWP does not have a Xamarin option).

## 2. Create your app in the App Center Portal to obtain the App Secret

If you have already created your app in the App Center portal, you can skip this step.

1. Head over to [appcenter.ms](https://appcenter.ms).
2. Sign up or log in and hit the blue button on the top right corner of the portal that says **Add new** and select **Add new app** from the dropdown menu.
3. Enter a name and an optional description for your app.
4. Select the appropriate OS and platform depending on your project as described above.
5. Hit the button at the bottom right that says **Add new app**.

Once you have created an app, you can obtain its **App Secret** on the **Settings** page on the App Center Portal. At the top right hand corner of the **Settings** page, click on the **triple vertical dots** and select `Copy app secret` to get your App Secret.

## 3. Add the App Center SDK to your solution

The App Center SDK can be integrated using Visual Studio or the Package Manager Console.

### Visual Studio for Mac

* Open Visual Studio for Mac.
* Click **File** > **Open** and choose your solution.
* In the solution navigator, right click the **Packages** section, and choose **Add NuGet packages...**.
* Search for **App Center**, and select **App Center Analytics** and **App Center Crashes**.
* Click **Add Packages**.

### Visual Studio for Windows

* Open Visual Studio for Windows.
* Click **File** > **Open** and choose your solution.
* In the solution navigator, right-click **References** and choose **Manage NuGet Packages**.
* Search for **App Center**, and install **Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics** and **Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes** packages.

### Package Manager Console

* Open the console in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/). To do this, choose **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Console**.
* If you're working in **Visual Studio for Mac**, make sure you have **NuGet Package Management Extensions** installed. For this, choose **Visual Studio** > **Extensions**, search for **NuGet** and install, if necessary.
* Type the following command in the console:

```shell
Install-Package Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics
Install-Package Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes
```

Now that you've integrated the SDK in your application, it's time to start the SDK and make use of the App Center services.

> [!NOTE]
> If you use the App Center SDK in a portable project (such as **Xamarin.Forms**), you must install the packages in each of the projects: the portable, Android, and iOS ones. To do that, you should open each sub-project and follow the corresponding steps described in [Visual Studio for Mac](#visual-studio-for-mac) or [Visual Studio for Windows](#visual-studio-for-windows) sections.

## 4. Start the SDK

In order to use App Center, you must opt in to the module(s) that you want to use. By default no modules are started and you will have to explicitly call each of them when starting the SDK.

### 4.1 Add the using statements

Add the appropriate namespaces before you get started with using our APIs.

* **Xamarin.iOS** - Open the project's `AppDelegate.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements
* **Xamarin.Android** - Open the project's `MainActivity.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements
* **Xamarin.Forms** - Open the project's `App.xaml.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements

```csharp
using Microsoft.AppCenter;
using Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics;
using Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes;
```

### 4.2 Add the `Start()` method

#### 4.2.1 Xamarin.Android

> [!NOTE]
> In case you are using the HockeyApp SDK for Android, make sure to initialize the HockeyApp SDK **AFTER** the App Center SDK.

Open the project's **MainActivity.cs** file and add the `Start()` call inside the `OnCreate()` method

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!NOTE]
> If your application has background services or multiple entry points like a broadcast receiver, exported activities or content providers, it's recommended to start `AppCenter` in the `Application.OnCreate` callback instead. If this remark applies to your application and you don't already have the callback, please look at [this Application.OnCreate code sample](https://forums.xamarin.com/discussion/comment/7243/#Comment_7243).

#### 4.2.2 Xamarin.iOS

> [!NOTE]
> Remember that it is not possible to have more than one active crash reporting SDK in your app. Disable the other SDKs' crash reporting functionality to make sure App Center can catch the crashes.

Open the project's `AppDelegate.cs` file and add the `Start()` call inside the `FinishedLaunching()` method

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!NOTE]
> If using Crashes, you must call this method in the UI/main thread and avoid starting background tasks until the `Start` method returns.
> The reason is that any null reference exception caught from another thread while Crashes is initializing may trigger a native crash and ignore the catch clause.
> Once the `AppCenter.Start` method returns, it is safe to try/catch null reference exceptions again.
> You can read more about the cause of this timing issue in the [Signals and third-party crash reporters](https://www.mono-project.com/docs/advanced/signals/) article.

##### 4.2.3 Xamarin.Forms

To use a Xamarin.Forms application targeting iOS, Android and UWP platforms, you need to create three applications in the App Center portal - one for each platform. Creating three apps will give you three App secrets - one for each. Open the project's **App.xaml.cs** file (or your class that inherits from `Xamarin.Forms.Application`) in your shared or portable project and add the method below in the `OnStart()` method.

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("ios={Your App Secret};android={Your App Secret};uwp={Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The curly braces is just to document you have to replace that content with the actual app secrets, don't put curly braces in the `Start` call.
> 
> [!NOTE]
> In case you are using the HockeyApp SDK for Android, make sure to initialize the HockeyApp SDK **AFTER** the App Center SDK. For your iOS application, please remember that it is not possible to have more than one active crash reporting SDK in your app. Disable the other SDKs' crash reporting functionality to make sure App Center can catch the crashes.

> [!NOTE]
> The notes from both the previous sections about iOS and Android apply to Xamarin.Forms as well. If those remarks apply to your application, you might need to initialize AppCenter in different places per platform.

### 4.3 Replace the placeholder with your App Secret

Make sure to replace `{Your App Secret}` text with the actual value for your application. The App Secret can be found on the **Getting Started** page or **Settings** page on the App Center portal.

The Getting Started page contains the above code sample with your App Secret in it, you can just copy-paste the whole sample.

The example above shows how to use the `Start()` method and include both App Center Analytics and App Center Crashes.

If you do not want to use one of the two services, remove the corresponding parameter from the method call above.

Note that, unless you explicitly specify each module as parameters in the start method, you can't use that App Center service. In addition, the `start()` API can be used only once in the lifecycle of your app – all other calls will log a warning to the console and only the modules included in the first call will be available.

For example - If you just want to onboard to App Center Analytics, you should modify the `Start()` call as follows:

#### 4.3.1 Xamarin.Android and Xamarin.iOS

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics));
```

#### 4.3.2 Xamarin.Forms

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("ios={Your App Secret};android={Your App secret};uwp={Your App secret}", typeof(Analytics));
```

---

Great, you are all set to visualize Analytics and Crashes data on the portal that the SDK collects automatically.

Look at the documentation for [App Center Analytics](~/sdk/analytics/xamarin.md) and [App Center Crashes](~/sdk/crashes/xamarin.md) to learn how to customize and use more advanced functionalities of both services.

To learn how to get started with in-app updates, read the documentation of [App Center Distribute](~/sdk/distribute/xamarin.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Using the portable APIs from Xamarin Forms, you will see **Crashes** and **Distribute** APIs, however those APIs are not yet supported on the **UWP** platform and are doing nothing when running on your **UWP** application.

Commit message:

Fix UWP note about crash support in Xamarin Forms

docs/sdk/getting-started/xamarin.md, after:

---
title: Get Started with Xamarin
description: Get started
keywords: sdk
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 11/13/2019
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.assetid: 466c0195-c2c7-491b-83dc-2ec03dd9ab18
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: xamarin
---

# Get Started with Xamarin

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [iOS Extensions](ios-extensions.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [WPF/WinForms](wpf-winforms.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [macOS Extensions](macos-extensions.md)
> * [tvOS](tvos.md)
> * [Cordova](cordova.md)

The App Center SDK uses a modular architecture so you can use any or all of the services.

Let's get started with setting up App Center Xamarin SDK in your app to use App Center Analytics and App Center Crashes. To add App Center Distribute to you app, please have a look at the [documentation for App Center Distribute](~/sdk/distribute/xamarin.md).

## 1. Prerequisites

Before you begin, please make sure that the following prerequisites are met:

* Your project is set up in Visual Studio 2017 or Visual Studio for Mac.
* You are targeting devices running iOS 9.0 or later or Android 4.1 (API level 16) or later.
* You are not using any other SDK that provides Crash Reporting functionality.

The App Center SDK for Xamarin supports the following platforms:

* Xamarin.Android
* Xamarin.iOS
* Xamarin.Forms (iOS, Android, and UWP)

### 1.1 About Xamarin.Android

Choose this option if you target no other platform but Android. You need to create one app in the App Center portal with the **Android** as the OS and **Xamarin** as the platform.

### 1.2 About Xamarin.iOS

Choose this option if you target no other platform but iOS. You need to create one app in the App Center portal with **iOS** as the OS and **Xamarin** as the platform.

### 1.3 About Xamarin.Forms (iOS, Android, and UWP)

Choose this option if you want to create a cross platform app for iOS, Android and UWP devices. You need to create 3 apps in App Center – one for each OS.

You need to select **Xamarin** as the platform for Android and iOS applications (UWP does not have a Xamarin option).

## 2. Create your app in the App Center Portal to obtain the App Secret

If you have already created your app in the App Center portal, you can skip this step.

1. Head over to [appcenter.ms](https://appcenter.ms).
2. Sign up or log in and hit the blue button on the top right corner of the portal that says **Add new** and select **Add new app** from the dropdown menu.
3. Enter a name and an optional description for your app.
4. Select the appropriate OS and platform depending on your project as described above.
5. Hit the button at the bottom right that says **Add new app**.

Once you have created an app, you can obtain its **App Secret** on the **Settings** page on the App Center Portal. At the top right hand corner of the **Settings** page, click on the **triple vertical dots** and select `Copy app secret` to get your App Secret.

## 3. Add the App Center SDK to your solution

The App Center SDK can be integrated using Visual Studio or the Package Manager Console.

### Visual Studio for Mac

* Open Visual Studio for Mac.
* Click **File** > **Open** and choose your solution.
* In the solution navigator, right click the **Packages** section, and choose **Add NuGet packages...**.
* Search for **App Center**, and select **App Center Analytics** and **App Center Crashes**.
* Click **Add Packages**.

### Visual Studio for Windows

* Open Visual Studio for Windows.
* Click **File** > **Open** and choose your solution.
* In the solution navigator, right-click **References** and choose **Manage NuGet Packages**.
* Search for **App Center**, and install **Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics** and **Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes** packages.

### Package Manager Console

* Open the console in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/). To do this, choose **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Console**.
* If you're working in **Visual Studio for Mac**, make sure you have **NuGet Package Management Extensions** installed. For this, choose **Visual Studio** > **Extensions**, search for **NuGet** and install, if necessary.
* Type the following command in the console:

```shell
Install-Package Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics
Install-Package Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes
```

Now that you've integrated the SDK in your application, it's time to start the SDK and make use of the App Center services.

> [!NOTE]
> If you use the App Center SDK in a portable project (such as **Xamarin.Forms**), you must install the packages in each of the projects: the portable, Android, iOS ones. To do that, you should open each sub-project and follow the corresponding steps described in [Visual Studio for Mac](#visual-studio-for-mac) or [Visual Studio for Windows](#visual-studio-for-windows) sections.

## 4. Start the SDK

In order to use App Center, you must opt in to the module(s) that you want to use. By default no modules are started and you will have to explicitly call each of them when starting the SDK.

### 4.1 Add the using statements

Add the appropriate namespaces before you get started with using our APIs.

* **Xamarin.iOS** - Open the project's `AppDelegate.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements
* **Xamarin.Android** - Open the project's `MainActivity.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements
* **Xamarin.Forms** - Open the project's `App.xaml.cs` and add the following lines below the existing `using` statements

```csharp
using Microsoft.AppCenter;
using Microsoft.AppCenter.Analytics;
using Microsoft.AppCenter.Crashes;
```

### 4.2 Add the `Start()` method

#### 4.2.1 Xamarin.Android

> [!NOTE]
> In case you are using the HockeyApp SDK for Android, make sure to initialize the HockeyApp SDK **AFTER** the App Center SDK.

Open the project's **MainActivity.cs** file and add the `Start()` call inside the `OnCreate()` method

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!NOTE]
> If your application has background services or multiple entry points like a broadcast receiver, exported activities or content providers, it's recommended to start `AppCenter` in the `Application.OnCreate` callback instead. If this remark applies to your application and you don't already have the callback, please look at [this Application.OnCreate code sample](https://forums.xamarin.com/discussion/comment/7243/#Comment_7243).

#### 4.2.2 Xamarin.iOS

> [!NOTE]
> Remember that it is not possible to have more than one active crash reporting SDK in your app. Disable the other SDKs' crash reporting functionality to make sure App Center can catch the crashes.

Open the project's `AppDelegate.cs` file and add the `Start()` call inside the `FinishedLaunching()` method

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!NOTE]
> If using Crashes, you must call this method in the UI/main thread and avoid starting background tasks until the `Start` method returns.
> The reason is that any null reference exception caught from another thread while Crashes is initializing may trigger a native crash and ignore the catch clause.
> Once the `AppCenter.Start` method returns, it is safe to try/catch null reference exceptions again.
> You can read more about the cause of this timing issue in the [Signals and third-party crash reporters](https://www.mono-project.com/docs/advanced/signals/) article.

##### 4.2.3 Xamarin.Forms

To use a Xamarin.Forms application targeting iOS, Android and UWP platforms, you need to create three applications in the App Center portal - one for each platform. Creating three apps will give you three App secrets - one for each. Open the project's **App.xaml.cs** file (or your class that inherits from `Xamarin.Forms.Application`) in your shared or portable project and add the method below in the `OnStart()` method.

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("ios={Your App Secret};android={Your App Secret};uwp={Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics), typeof(Crashes));
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The curly braces is just to document you have to replace that content with the actual app secrets, don't put curly braces in the `Start` call.
> 
> [!NOTE]
> In case you are using the HockeyApp SDK for Android, make sure to initialize the HockeyApp SDK **AFTER** the App Center SDK. For your iOS application, please remember that it is not possible to have more than one active crash reporting SDK in your app. Disable the other SDKs' crash reporting functionality to make sure App Center can catch the crashes.

> [!NOTE]
> The notes from both the previous sections about iOS and Android apply to Xamarin.Forms as well. If those remarks apply to your application, you might need to initialize AppCenter in different places per platform.

### 4.3 Replace the placeholder with your App Secret

Make sure to replace `{Your App Secret}` text with the actual value for your application. The App Secret can be found on the **Getting Started** page or **Settings** page on the App Center portal.

The Getting Started page contains the above code sample with your App Secret in it, you can just copy-paste the whole sample.

The example above shows how to use the `Start()` method and include both App Center Analytics and App Center Crashes.

If you do not want to use one of the two services, remove the corresponding parameter from the method call above.

Note that, unless you explicitly specify each module as parameters in the start method, you can't use that App Center service. In addition, the `start()` API can be used only once in the lifecycle of your app – all other calls will log a warning to the console and only the modules included in the first call will be available.

For example - If you just want to onboard to App Center Analytics, you should modify the `Start()` call as follows:

#### 4.3.1 Xamarin.Android and Xamarin.iOS

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("{Your App Secret}", typeof(Analytics));
```

#### 4.3.2 Xamarin.Forms

```csharp
AppCenter.Start("ios={Your App Secret};android={Your App secret};uwp={Your App secret}", typeof(Analytics));
```

---

Great, you are all set to visualize Analytics and Crashes data on the portal that the SDK collects automatically.

Look at the documentation for [App Center Analytics](~/sdk/analytics/xamarin.md) and [App Center Crashes](~/sdk/crashes/xamarin.md) to learn how to customize and use more advanced functionalities of both services.

To learn how to get started with in-app updates, read the documentation of [App Center Distribute](~/sdk/distribute/xamarin.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Using the portable APIs from Xamarin Forms, you will see APIs from all modules, however not all those APIs are supported on the **UWP** platform and are doing nothing when running on your **UWP** application. In particular UWP does not support the following modules: **Distribute**, **Auth** and **Data**. Any method with a return type would return either `null` (for objects), `0` (for numbers), or `false` (for booleans) on a UWP application.
