docs/sdk/push/introduction-android.md, before:

App Center Push enables you to send push notifications to users of your app from the App Center portal. App Center portal and the Push SDK is integrated with [Firebase Cloud Messaging](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/).

Note that only devices having the [Google Play](https://play.google.com) store application or emulators with **Google APIs** images can receive the notifications.

> [!NOTE]
> A notification appears in the system notification center only if the application is in the background at the moment the Push is received.

## Set up Firebase Cloud Messaging

You need a Google Account and use the Firebase console.

1. Create a project on the [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/).
2. Go to project settings (the cog icon).
3. Go to **Cloud Messaging** tab.
4. Copy the **Server Key**. You will need this key as part of the configuration of Push on the App Center portal for your application.
5. Copy the **Sender ID**, as you will need it in SDK integration.

Commit message:

Reintroduce Firebase dependencies in Android (#705)
* Reintroduce Firebase dependencies in Android SDK

* Fix wording

* Revert detailed firebase instructions

* Bump version of SDK

* Address feedback

* Inline firebase integration steps

* Update quickstarts

* Fix wording and some formatting issues

* Fix wording

* Update android.md

* Update push.md

* Update android.md

* Update introduction-android.md

docs/sdk/push/introduction-android.md, after:

App Center Push enables you to send push notifications to users of your app from the App Center portal. App Center portal and the Push SDK is integrated with [Firebase Cloud Messaging](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/).

Note that only devices having the [Google Play](https://play.google.com) store application or emulators with **Google APIs** images can receive the notifications.

> [!NOTE]
> A notification appears in the system notification center only if the application is in the background at the moment the Push is received.

## Prerequisites

### 1. Set up Firebase Cloud Messaging

- Create a project on the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com).
- Press on the Android logo to create an application matching your package name.
- Go to **Project Settings** and download the **google-services.json** file.
- Copy this file to your Android project app module.

### 2. Obtain your Android API Key

In the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com), go to **Project Settings**. Navigate to the **Cloud Messaging** tab. Copy the **Server Key**. This will be the Android API Key that you will need to set in the App Center Push portal.
