docs/sdk/push/react-native-android.md, before:

---
title: App Center Push for React Native Android
description: Using Push in App Center
keywords: sdk, push
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 12/21/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 656B7FAD-2210-467A-B82F-EF9538DD2D00
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# App Center Push

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin.Android](xamarin-android.md)
> * [Xamarin.iOS](xamarin-ios.md)
> * [Xamarin.Forms](xamarin-forms.md)
> * [React Native Android](react-native-android.md)
> * [React Native iOS](react-native-ios.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova Andriod](cordova-android.md)
> * [Cordova iOS](cordova-ios.md)

> [!NOTE]
> If you have integrated Push in earlier versions of the SDK, you can optionally [remove Firebase SDK dependencies](migration/react-native-android.md).

[!include[](introduction-android.md)]

## Add App Center Push to your app

Please follow the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) section if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet.
The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – you only need to integrate the services that you're interested in.

1. Open a Terminal and navigate to the root of your React Native project, then enter the following to add App Center Push to the app:

    ```
    npm install appcenter-push --save
    ```

2. Link the plugin to the React Native app by using the react-native link command.

    ```
    react-native link appcenter-push
    ```

    Those steps modify your **MainApplication.java** file, adding `AppCenterReactNativePushPackage` there.

3. (Optional) In case you enabled ProGuard in your Android project, please add the following line to your ProGuard configuration file (**android/app/proguard-rules.pro**):

    ```
    -dontwarn com.microsoft.appcenter.push.**
    ```

    If you haven't enabled or don't use ProGuard, you may skip this step.

## Set the Sender ID

The App Center Push SDK requires the **Sender ID** obtained in the "Prerequisites" section. Look for the `onCreate` method in the **MainApplication.java** file and add the following before `SoLoader.init`:

```java
Push.setSenderId("{Your Sender ID}");
SoLoader.init(this, false);
```

Make sure that you have replaced `{Your Sender ID}` with the **Sender ID** obtained in the "Prerequisites" section. Please check out the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) section if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet.

## Intercept push notifications

You can set up a listener to be notified whenever a push notification is received in foreground or a background push notification has been clicked by the user.

> [!NOTE]
> A notification is not generated when your application receives a push in the foreground.

> [!NOTE]
> If the push is received in background, the event is **NOT** triggered at receive time.
> The event is triggered when you click on the notification.

> [!NOTE]
> The background notification click callback does **NOT** expose **title** and **message**.
> **Title** and **message** are only available in **foreground** pushes.

[!include[](react-native-listener.md)]

## Existing Firebase Analytics users

The App Center Push SDK automatically disables Firebase Analytics. If you are a Firebase customer and want to keep reporting analytics data to Firebase, you need to call a method to enable it by default. To do this, look for the `onCreate` method in the **MainApplication.java** file and add the following before `SoLoader.init`:

```java
Push.enableFirebaseAnalytics(getApplication());
SoLoader.init(this, false);
```

## Enable or disable App Center Push at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Push at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will stop updating the Google registration identifier used to push but the existing one will continue working. In other words, disabling the App Center Push in the SDK will **NOT** stop your application from receiving push notifications.

```javascript
import Push from 'appcenter-push';

...

await Push.setEnabled(false);      // Disable push
await Push.setEnabled(true);       // Re-enable it
```

## Check if App Center Push is enabled

You can also check if App Center Push is enabled or not:

```javascript
import Push from 'appcenter-push';

...

const pushEnabled = await Push.isEnabled();
```

Commit message:

Android SDK 1.2.0 (#473)
* Release Android SDK 1.2.0

* Increase crash file size limit on native Android

docs/sdk/push/react-native-android.md, after:

---
title: App Center Push for React Native Android
description: Using Push in App Center
keywords: sdk, push
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 01/25/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 656B7FAD-2210-467A-B82F-EF9538DD2D00
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# App Center Push

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin.Android](xamarin-android.md)
> * [Xamarin.iOS](xamarin-ios.md)
> * [Xamarin.Forms](xamarin-forms.md)
> * [React Native Android](react-native-android.md)
> * [React Native iOS](react-native-ios.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)
> * [Cordova Andriod](cordova-android.md)
> * [Cordova iOS](cordova-ios.md)

> [!NOTE]
> If you have integrated Push in earlier versions of the SDK, you can optionally [remove Firebase SDK dependencies](migration/react-native-android.md).

[!include[](introduction-android.md)]

## Add App Center Push to your app

Please follow the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) section if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet.
The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – you only need to integrate the services that you're interested in.

1. Open a Terminal and navigate to the root of your React Native project, then enter the following to add App Center Push to the app:

    ```
    npm install appcenter-push --save
    ```

2. Link the plugin to the React Native app by using the react-native link command.

    ```
    react-native link appcenter-push
    ```

    Those steps modify your **MainApplication.java** file, adding `AppCenterReactNativePushPackage` there.

3. (Optional) In case you enabled ProGuard in your Android project, please add the following line to your ProGuard configuration file (**android/app/proguard-rules.pro**):

    ```
    -dontwarn com.microsoft.appcenter.push.**
    ```

    If you haven't enabled or don't use ProGuard, you may skip this step.

## Set the Sender ID

The App Center Push SDK requires the **Sender ID** obtained in the "Prerequisites" section. Look for the `onCreate` method in the **MainApplication.java** file and add the following before `SoLoader.init`:

```java
Push.setSenderId("{Your Sender ID}");
SoLoader.init(this, false);
```

You also need to add the following import statement to the same file:

```java
import com.microsoft.appcenter.push.Push;
```

Make sure that you have replaced `{Your Sender ID}` with the **Sender ID** obtained in the "Prerequisites" section. Please check out the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) section if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet.

## Intercept push notifications

You can set up a listener to be notified whenever a push notification is received in foreground or a background push notification has been clicked by the user.

> [!NOTE]
> A notification is not generated when your application receives a push in the foreground.

> [!NOTE]
> If the push is received in background, the event is **NOT** triggered at receive time.
> The event is triggered when you click on the notification.

> [!NOTE]
> The background notification click callback does **NOT** expose **title** and **message**.
> **Title** and **message** are only available in **foreground** pushes.

[!include[](react-native-listener.md)]

## Existing Firebase Analytics users

The App Center Push SDK automatically disables Firebase Analytics. If you are a Firebase customer and want to keep reporting analytics data to Firebase, you need to call a method to enable it by default. To do this, look for the `onCreate` method in the **MainApplication.java** file and add the following before `SoLoader.init`:

```java
Push.enableFirebaseAnalytics(getApplication());
SoLoader.init(this, false);
```

## Enable or disable App Center Push at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Push at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will stop updating the Google registration identifier used to push but the existing one will continue working. In other words, disabling the App Center Push in the SDK will **NOT** stop your application from receiving push notifications.

```javascript
import Push from 'appcenter-push';

...

await Push.setEnabled(false);      // Disable push
await Push.setEnabled(true);       // Re-enable it
```

## Check if App Center Push is enabled

You can also check if App Center Push is enabled or not:

```javascript
import Push from 'appcenter-push';

...

const pushEnabled = await Push.isEnabled();
```
