docs/diagnostics/enabling-diagnostics.md, before:

---
title: Enabling Diagnostics in an App
description: Learn how to add support for App Center Diagnostics to an app
keywords: crashes, errors, SDK
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 10/24/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 518975d1-077c-4f7d-bf35-6ceba05347ca
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Enabling Diagnostics in an App

## Diagnostics SDK

To enable App Center’s diagnostics for your app, make sure you have the App Center SDK integrated for your app. Learn more about App Center’s SDKs and how to add it to your app projects in the [SDK documentation](~/sdk/index.md).

Learn how to generate a test crash, get more information about a previous crash, and customize your usage of App Center crashes for your [Android](~/sdk/crashes/android.md), [iOS](~/sdk/crashes/ios.md), [macOS](~/sdk/crashes/macos.md), [UWP](~/sdk/crashes/uwp.md), [React Native](~/sdk/crashes/react-native.md), [Xamarin](~/sdk/crashes/xamarin.md), [Unity](~/sdk/crashes/unity.md), and [Apache Cordova](~/sdk/crashes/cordova.md) apps.  

## Next steps

- [Learn more about App Center Diagnostics features](~/diagnostics/features.md)
- [Learn how to navigate App Center Diagnostics UI](~/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-UI.md)
- [Learn how to use App Center Diagnostics APIs](~/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-API.md)

Commit message:

added detail re: simluator crashes  (#1170)
* Update limitations.md

* Update limitations.md

* updated symbol groups API

* Update using-the-diagnostics-API.md

* simluator support

added detail re: simulator in response to Github feedback (https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/appcenter-docs/issues/485)

* Update enabling-diagnostics.md

removed some words...

docs/diagnostics/enabling-diagnostics.md, after:

---
title: Enabling Diagnostics in an App
description: Learn how to add support for App Center Diagnostics to an app
keywords: crashes, errors, SDK
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 03/04/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 518975d1-077c-4f7d-bf35-6ceba05347ca
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Enabling Diagnostics in an App

## Diagnostics SDK

To enable App Center’s diagnostics for your app, make sure you have the App Center SDK integrated for your app. Learn more about App Center’s SDKs and how to add it to your app projects in the [SDK documentation](~/sdk/index.md).

App Center Crashes automatically generates a crash log every time your app crashes on a real device or in a device simulator. Learn how to generate a test crash, get more information about a previous crash, and customize your usage of App Center crashes for your [Android](~/sdk/crashes/android.md), [iOS](~/sdk/crashes/ios.md), [macOS](~/sdk/crashes/macos.md), [UWP](~/sdk/crashes/uwp.md), [React Native](~/sdk/crashes/react-native.md), [Xamarin](~/sdk/crashes/xamarin.md), [Unity](~/sdk/crashes/unity.md), and [Apache Cordova](~/sdk/crashes/cordova.md) apps.  

## Next steps

- [Learn more about App Center Diagnostics features](~/diagnostics/features.md)
- [Learn how to navigate App Center Diagnostics UI](~/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-UI.md)
- [Learn how to use App Center Diagnostics APIs](~/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-API.md)
