docs/diagnostics/symbolication.md, before:

---
title: Symbolication
description: Help understanding symbolication for iOS and MacOS diagnostics in App Center
keywords: crashes, errors, iOS, MacOS, symbols, symbolication
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 08/29/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 64fe5d88-d981-42bf-8ca9-8f273aa7e2ea
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Symbolication

## Overview

MacOS and iOS crash reports show the stack traces for all running threads of your app of the time a crash is occurred. The stack traces only contain memory addresses and don’t show class names, methods, file names and line numbers that are needed to read and understand the crashes.

To get these memory addresses translated you need to upload a dSYM package to App Center, which contains all information required to make this happen.  You can learn more about symbolication from Apple’s [official developer documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/technotes/tn2151/_index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/DTS40008184-CH1-SYMBOLICATION).

## Finding the `.dSYM` bundle

1. In Xcode, open the **Window** menu, then select **Organizer**
2. Select the **Archives** tab
3. Select your app in the left sidebar
4. Right-click on the latest archive and select **Show in Finder**
5. Right-click the `.xcarchive` file in Finder and select **Show Package Contents**
6. You should see a folder named `dSYMs` which contains your dSYM bundle

## Uploading symbols
### App Center Portal

1. Create a ZIP file for the dSYM package on your Mac
2. Log into App Center and select your app
3. In the left menu, navigate to the **Diagnostics** section
4. Select **Symbols**
5. In the top right corner, click **Upload symbols** and upload the zip file
6. After the zip file is indexed by App Center, new incoming crashes will be symbolicated for you

### App Center API

1. Trigger a `POST` request to the [symbol_uploads API](https://openapi.appcenter.ms/#/crash/symbolUploads_create). 
This call allocates space on our backend for your symbols and returns a `symbol_upload_id` and an `upload_url` property.
2. Using the `upload_url` property returned from the first step, make a `PUT` request with the header: `"x-ms-blob-type: BlockBlob"` and supply the location of your symbols on disk.  This will upload the symbols to our backend storage accounts. Learn more about [PUT Blob request headers ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/put-blob#request-headers-all-blob-types).
3. Make a `PATCH` request to  the [symbol_uploads API](https://openapi.appcenter.ms/#/crash/symbolUploads_complete) using the `symbol_upload_id` property returned from the first step. In the body of this request, specify whether you want to set the status of the upload to `committed` (successfully completed) the upload process, or `aborted` (unsuccessfully completed). 

## Bitcode

Bitcode was introduced by Apple to allow an app that is sent to the App Store to be recompiled by Apple itself and apply the latest optimization. The consequence is that the *symbols* for the app in the store will be different from the ones generated by your own build system, and App Center will not be able to symbolicate your crash dumps.

App Center crash reporting does not completely support the symbolication of crashes from bitcode-enabled apps yet. We will be adding the support for bitcode soon, but in the meantime, we advise that you **disable bitcode**. Disabling bitcode significantly simplifies symbols management and currently does not have any known downsides. This doc will explain how to do that.

### How to disable bitcode for your app

1. Open your project settings by clicking on the top-level element in the Project Navigator
2. Go to the Build Settings page
3. Search for `bitcode`
4. In the result change the value from Yes to **No**
5. Rebuild your app

With these simple steps, App Center crash reporting will behave as usual.

Commit message:

diagnostics react native docs (#892)
* Update symbolication.md

added react native symoblication instructions

* Update symbolication.md

* fixed line breaks

* Update symbolication.md

* fixed code formatting

* Update symbolication.md

docs/diagnostics/symbolication.md, after:

---
title: Symbolication
description: Help understanding symbolication for iOS and MacOS diagnostics in App Center
keywords: crashes, errors, iOS, MacOS, symbols, symbolication
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 10/08/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 64fe5d88-d981-42bf-8ca9-8f273aa7e2ea
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Symbolication

## Overview

MacOS and iOS crash reports show the stack traces for all running threads of your app of the time a crash is occurred. The stack traces only contain memory addresses and don’t show class names, methods, file names and line numbers that are needed to read and understand the crashes.

To get these memory addresses translated you need to upload a dSYM package to App Center, which contains all information required to make this happen.  You can learn more about symbolication from Apple’s [official developer documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/technotes/tn2151/_index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/DTS40008184-CH1-SYMBOLICATION).

## Finding the `.dSYM` bundle

1. In Xcode, open the **Window** menu, then select **Organizer**
2. Select the **Archives** tab
3. Select your app in the left sidebar
4. Right-click on the latest archive and select **Show in Finder**
5. Right-click the `.xcarchive` file in Finder and select **Show Package Contents**
6. You should see a folder named `dSYMs` which contains your dSYM bundle

## Uploading symbols

### App Center Portal

1. Create a ZIP file for the dSYM package on your Mac
2. Log into App Center and select your app
3. In the left menu, navigate to the **Diagnostics** section
4. Select **Symbols**
5. In the top right corner, click **Upload symbols** and upload the zip file
6. After the zip file is indexed by App Center, new incoming crashes will be symbolicated for you

#### React Native iOS apps

To obtain symbol files for React Native iOS files, create a ZIP file with the dSYM package on your Mac and the JavaScript source map of your app. The source map should named `index.ios.map`. The commands below will generate the source map for release builds:

```shell
react-native bundle --entry-file index.ios.js --platform ios --dev false --reset-cache --bundle-output unused.jsbundle --sourcemap-output index.ios.map
```

The App Center Build service automatically generates a valid dSYM and source map `.zip` file, and uploads it to the diagnostics service. This means if you use the App Center Build service, you don't need to manually obtain the symbol files and upload it to the diagnostics service as detailed in the steps above.

### App Center API

1. Trigger a `POST` request to the [symbol_uploads API](https://openapi.appcenter.ms/#/crash/symbolUploads_create). 
This call allocates space on our backend for your symbols and returns a `symbol_upload_id` and an `upload_url` property.
2. Using the `upload_url` property returned from the first step, make a `PUT` request with the header: `"x-ms-blob-type: BlockBlob"` and supply the location of your symbols on disk.  This will upload the symbols to our backend storage accounts. Learn more about [PUT Blob request headers ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/put-blob#request-headers-all-blob-types).
3. Make a `PATCH` request to  the [symbol_uploads API](https://openapi.appcenter.ms/#/crash/symbolUploads_complete) using the `symbol_upload_id` property returned from the first step. In the body of this request, specify whether you want to set the status of the upload to `committed` (successfully completed) the upload process, or `aborted` (unsuccessfully completed). 

## Bitcode

Bitcode was introduced by Apple to allow an app that is sent to the App Store to be recompiled by Apple itself and apply the latest optimization. The consequence is that the *symbols* for the app in the store will be different from the ones generated by your own build system, and App Center will not be able to symbolicate your crash dumps.

App Center crash reporting does not completely support the symbolication of crashes from bitcode-enabled apps yet. We will be adding the support for bitcode soon, but in the meantime, we advise that you **disable bitcode**. Disabling bitcode significantly simplifies symbols management and currently does not have any known downsides. This doc will explain how to do that.

### How to disable bitcode for your app

1. Open your project settings by clicking on the top-level element in the Project Navigator
2. Go to the Build Settings page
3. Search for `bitcode`
4. In the result change the value from Yes to **No**
5. Rebuild your app

With these simple steps, App Center crash reporting will behave as usual.
