docs/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-UI.md, before:

---
title: Using the Diagnostics UI
description: help using the Diagnostics UI in App Center
keywords: crashes, errors, annotate, status, download
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 07/31/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 5c420816-0fe9-4da1-bfaf-bc2a1fb6739b
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Using the Diagnostics UI

## General

App Center’s Diagnostics service is designed for you easily monitor your apps health and for you to dive deeper into a report to get the information you need to fix the issue.  

1. Login to the App Center Portal
2. Select an application
3. In the navigation area on the left, select **Diagnostics**

For Xamarin, Unity, WPF and WinForms apps, App Center displays the app's crashes and errors per day in a side by side view. By clicking into the Crashes or Errors tab, this view will get filtered.

For all apps, you can filter the diagnostics data by app version, build number, time range and status. Click on a group to find more information including a list of specific reports, devices and OSs affected.

![Diagnostics overview page](~/diagnostics/images/diagnostics-overview.png)


### Annotate a group

Annotate your groups in App Center diagnostics to keep track of notes and other important information. To leave an annotation:

1. Select the Diagnostics service
2. Select a crash or an error group
3. In the upper right-hand corner, click the **annotate** button
4. Leave a text in the text box and your note will be automatically saved

![Annotate a crash group](~/diagnostics/images/new-annotate.png)

### Track the status of your groups

Mark each of your groups as open, closed, or ignored. To mark the status of your groups:

1. Select a group or select multiple groups
2. Click on the **Mark as** button  
3. Select the state (open, closed, ignored)

Any new crash or error instance which is part of a closed or ignored group will not reopen or unignore the corresponding group.

![Track the status of your crash and error groups](~/diagnostics/images/track-status.png)

Use the **Filter** option in the upper-right corner of the page to filter crashes/errors by open, closed, and ignored, focusing your view on the data that matters.

### Download Diagnostics Data

You can download your diagnostics data to access raw data for further analysis. To download your diagnostics data:  

1. Navigate to the Diagnostics section
2. Select **Crashes** or **Errors**
3. Select on a specific group
4. Select a specific report
5. In the upper right-hand corner, click on the **Download** button and select a format (JSON or Text)

![Download diagnostics data](~/diagnostics/images/new-download.png)

Commit message:

Adding changes related to new UWP diagnostics UI.

docs/diagnostics/using-the-diagnostics-UI.md, after:

---
title: Using the Diagnostics UI
description: help using the Diagnostics UI in App Center
keywords: crashes, errors, annotate, status, download
author: winnieli1208
ms.author: yuli1
ms.date: 07/31/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 5c420816-0fe9-4da1-bfaf-bc2a1fb6739b
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics 
---

# Using the Diagnostics UI

## General

App Center’s Diagnostics service is designed for you easily monitor your apps health and for you to dive deeper into a report to get the information you need to fix the issue.  

1. Login to the App Center Portal
2. Select an application
3. In the navigation area on the left, select **Diagnostics**

For Xamarin, Unity, WPF and WinForms apps, App Center displays the app's crashes and errors per day in a side by side view. By clicking into the Crashes or Errors tab, this view will get filtered.

For all apps, you can filter the diagnostics data by app version, build number, time range and status. Click on a group to find more information including a list of specific reports, devices and OSs affected.

![Diagnostics overview page](~/diagnostics/images/diagnostics-overview.png)


### Annotate a group

Annotate your groups in App Center diagnostics to keep track of notes and other important information. To leave an annotation:

1. Select the Diagnostics service
2. Select a crash or an error group
3. In the upper right-hand corner, click the **annotate** button
4. Leave a text in the text box and your note will be automatically saved

![Annotate a crash group](~/diagnostics/images/new-annotate.png)

> [!NOTE]
> App Center group annotation is not supported for UWP legacy Diagnostics UI.

### Track the status of your groups

Mark each of your groups as open, closed, or ignored. To mark the status of your groups:

1. Select a group or select multiple groups
2. Click on the **Mark as** button  
3. Select the state (open, closed, ignored)

Any new crash or error instance which is part of a closed or ignored group will not reopen or unignore the corresponding group.

![Track the status of your crash and error groups](~/diagnostics/images/track-status.png)

Use the **Filter** option in the upper-right corner of the page to filter crashes/errors by open, closed, and ignored, focusing your view on the data that matters.

### Download Diagnostics Data

You can download your diagnostics data to access raw data for further analysis. To download your diagnostics data:  

1. Navigate to the Diagnostics section
2. Select **Crashes** or **Errors**
3. Select on a specific group
4. Select a specific report
5. In the upper right-hand corner, click on the **Download** button and select a format (JSON or Text)

![Download diagnostics data](~/diagnostics/images/new-download.png)
