---
title: Test Cloud Migration Guide
description: "Upgrading Xamarin Test Cloud to Visual Studio App Center"
keywords: testcloud
author: glennwester
ms.author: glwest
ms.date: 2/21/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: test
---
# Upgrading all Xamarin Test Cloud subscribers to Visual Studio App Center<br/>
Microsoft will seamlessly upgrade active Xamarin Test Cloud subscriptions to [Visual Studio App Center](http://appcenter.ms). Visual Studio App Center offers the same devices, performance, and features as Xamarin Test Cloud, plus an upgraded API, unified CLI, and new features like saved device sets. It also integrates our automated test lab with our other App Center services, like cloud-based builds, app distribution, crash reporting, user analytics, and push notifications.
### Timeline
* March 31st, 2018 
	1. Teams / Orgs / Apps / previous test reports imported into App Center. 
	2. All test results uploaded via Xamarin Test Cloud CLIs will automatically route into App Center account.
	3. The [Xamarin Test Cloud](http://testcloud.xamarin.com) portal will redirect to [Visual Studio App Center](http://appcenter.ms).
* Later this Spring
	1. Xamarin Test Cloud CLIs deprecated, everyone must use the [App Center CLI](https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-cli) to continue uploading.

### Next steps
Users must log into app center with the same email they used in Xamarin Test Cloud to benefit from the above import. If a user doesn't have an App Center account, one will be created and user will need to set a password.

* **If you do not have an App Center account**
	* [Create](http://appcenter.ms/) one today, use same email as you use in Xamarin Test Cloud.
	*  If you do not wish to try App Center before March 31st, you can simply wait until that day and we'll create the account and import your data for you.
	*  We'll send an email to the Xamarin Test Cloud account inviting you to complete your App Center account setup.

* **If you already have an App Center account (email matches Xamarin Test Cloud)**
	* All of your existing data from the Xamarin Test Cloud will import into your new App Center account.
    	* We'll send an email to the Xamarin Test Cloud account inviting you to log into your App Center account.
	

### FAQ

**Q:** *How do I install the App Center CLI?*
 
**A:** We are committed to maintain the CLI until the end of April 2018. As part of the upgrade we will route the results that are generated by your existing Xamarin Test Cloud upload command to App Center through April 30th, 2018.

In order to install appcenter-cli, open a terminal window and execute the following command:


```
npm install -g appcenter-cli
```
Read more about the [appcenter-cli]((https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-cli) and how to upload to App Center.

**Q:** Is the team that built App Center Test different than Xamarin Test Cloud? 

**A:** Visual Studio App Center Test is built and maintained by the same team as Xamarin Test Cloud, so we’re confident you’ll love what it has to offer. If you have any concerns at all, please contact your account manager or reach out to us on Intercom.

**Q:** *How is support handled in App Center?*

**A:** Support will now be handled in [Intercom](https://intercom.help/appcenter). If you have a question you can click the blue circle at the bottom right-hand side of your App Center dashboard to begin a conversation with one of agents.

**Q:** How will I know if my organization was imported from Xamarin Test Cloud?

**A:** The migrated organization will get the prefix "[xtc]" e.g. [xtc]MyOrg.

**Q:** *If my imported organization does not have a subscription, how do I initiate a trial for my app in App Center*

**A:** To enroll in a 30-day Test trial:

- In the App Center portal's navigation area, select the organzation (designated with [xtc]) and then select an app.

- In the application menu on the left, select **Test**

- Select **Start testing your app**.

- From the pop-up window, select “Start 30-day trial”.

**Q:** *What do I need to do during this upgrade?*

**A:** We'll handle the upgrade for you. On April 1st, you will simply log into App Center using your Xamarin Test Cloud account.

**Q:** *Can I upgrade to App Center before March 31st?*

**A:** You don’t have to wait until March 31st. App Center Test is fully functional and fully supported. If you have not already done so, please create a Visual Studio App Center account using the same email address as your Xamarin Test Cloud account. You can then familiarize yourself with all the features of Visual Studio App Center with the knowledge that we will migrate your Xamarin Test Cloud data into your new account on March 31st.

**Q:** *How is support handled in App Center?*

**A:** Support will be handled in [Intercom](https://intercom.help/appcenter). If you have a support question you can click the blue circle at the bottom right-hand side in App Center to initiate a conversation with one of our agents.

**Q:** What do I have to do if I have an App Center account already?

**A:** On March 31, 2018, as part of the upgrade, we will import your teams, orgs, users and test data into the Visual Studio App Center account with the same email address as your Xamarin Test Cloud account. If you do not have a Visual Studio App Center account at that time, we'll create one using the email address from your Xamarin Test Cloud account. If you currently have an App Center account, the email of the account must match your Xamarin Test Cloud email address exactly for this import to occur.

**Q:** *Will my service be interrupted?*

**A:** All Xamarin Test Cloud accounts will remain active until March 31, 2018. Your current tests will continue to work through that date. You will be able to create and run new tests as usual during that time and there will be no disruption of your current service. After March 31, 2018, the Xamarin Test Cloud portal will redirect to the Visual Studio App Center portal, and all future testing happens in App Center.


**Q:** *How do I purchase a test plan in App Center?*

**A:** When your plan expires you can purchase a test plan App Center through the "Billing" section . Note, paid services in App Center require an [Azure subscription](~/general/azure-subscriptions/index.md) for billing.

**Q:** *Who can I reach out to with additional questions?*

**A:** For more information about the upgrade, please don't hesitate to reach out on Intercom with any questions.

### Other upcoming product changes
* **Upload to Test Cloud (Visual Studio for Mac feature)** – Microsoft will discontinue support for the “Upload to Xamarin Test Cloud” function in Visual Studio for Mac (invoked by right-clicking the Unit test tree) on March 31st, 2018. Moving forward tests must submitted through the Visual Studio [App Center CLI](~/test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md).
* **Xamarin Test Recorder** - Microsoft will discontinue development of Xamarin Test Recorder on macOS and the Visual Studio extension for Windows on March 31st, 2018. Upload to Test Cloud functionality from Xamarin Test Recorder will no longer be supported after this date. Moving forward tests must submitted through the Visual Studio [App Center CLI](~/test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md).
* **Calabash** - After delivering support for next major release of the iOS and Android operating systems, Microsoft will discontinue our contributions to developing Calabash, the open-source mobile app testing tool. We hope that the community will continue to fully adopt and maintain it. As part of our transition on the development of Calabash, we've provided an overview of mobile app UI and end-to-end testing frameworks as a starting point for teams who are looking to re-evaluate their testing strategy. Please see our [Mobile App Testing Frameworks Overview](~/migration/test-cloud/frameworks.md) document. 

### Helpful Resources
* [App Center](https://appcenter.ms)
* [App Center Test Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/appcenter/test-cloud/)
* [App Center Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/appcenter)
