docs/quickstarts/macOS/getting-started.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Getting Started | Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial to onboard an macOS application in App Center
keywords: app center
authors: sabrinaj206
ms.author: t-sajia
ms.date: 06/26/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.assetid: 48b74a38-efe7-4a35-85a7-883e382fe0ef
ms.tgt_pltfrm: macos
dev_langs:  
 - swift
---

# Getting Started - Sample Swift App and Tutorials

In this tutorial, you will learn how to set up a sample Swift app with App Center for macOS. Note that both Objective-C and Swift are supported.

### Prerequisites
- [GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
- [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12#)

## Login to GitHub and fork the repository
1. Login to your [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

2. Access the [sample app's GitHub repository](https://github.com/VSAppCenter/sampleapp-macos-swift).

3. Click **Fork** at the top right hand corner of the page, and clone the repository.

## Integrate CocoaPods
1. Open a terminal and go to the sample app's directory.

2. Run the command below to install CocoaPods:

   ```bash
   sudo gem install cocoapods
   ```

3. The included Podfile lists the dependencies in the source code. To install them, run the command below:

   ```bash
   pod install
   ```

4. Open the **.xcworkspace** and press **Run**. The app should build without error.


## Sign in to App Center

1. Open the [App Center portal](https://appcenter.ms).

2. Click **Connect with GitHub** and log in, or use another provider.

## Create a new app in App Center

1. Click **Add new app**.

2. Name the app **Sample macOS App**.

3. Choose **macOS** and **Objective-C / Swift**.

4. Click **Add new app** at the bottom.  

## Replace the App Secret

In order for the sample app to send information to App Center, the app secret must be changed in Xcode.

1. Navigate to the **Settings** page in App Center.

2. Copy the **App Secret** at the top.

3. Open the **.xcworkspace** from the sample app folder.

4. In **AppDelegate.swift**, edit the **applicationDidFinishLaunching** delegate method and paste your App Secret at the placeholder.

5. **Add, commit, and push changes to your forked repository.** This can be done from the terminal, or a tool of your choice.


## Codesign the project

*Codesigning is optional, but recommended.*

Codesigning assures users that the app is from a trustworthy developer, and has not been altered by someone else. In App Center, it is needed to distribute the app to users and send push notifications. Learn more from the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/AppDistributionGuide/MaintainingProfiles/MaintainingProfiles.html).

When creating a new App ID for this sample app, be sure to check the **Push Notifications** service under the **App Services** section.

  ![Push App Service](images/AppID_push_macOS.png)

1. Open **.xcworkspace** from the sample app's folder.

2. Go to **General** within the .xcworkspace file.

3. Under **Identity**, edit the **Bundle Identifier** to match the app ID.

4. Import and select the provisioning profile under **Signing (Debug)** and **Signing (Release)**.

5. **Add, commit, and push changes to your forked repository.** This can be done from the terminal, or a tool of your choice.

You're all set up to try out an App Center service. Not sure what to do next? Most people build their app next; check out the **[Build Tutorial](build.md)** for a short walkthrough.

Commit message:

Documentation stylefixes (#1234)
* Filenames are not bold. Your -> the project's

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

Apparently I was wrong about `file` instead of **file**

* Fix acrolinx scores lower than 80

* More Acrolynx fixes

* Fix "end user"

* Code -> bold

* Fix acrolynx

* Extra file

* More fixes

* Final fixes

* Line breaks

docs/quickstarts/macOS/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started | Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial to onboard an macOS application in App Center
keywords: app center
authors: sabrinaj206
ms.author: t-sajia
ms.date: 06/26/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.assetid: 48b74a38-efe7-4a35-85a7-883e382fe0ef
ms.tgt_pltfrm: macos
dev_langs:  
 - swift
---

# Getting Started - Sample Swift App and Tutorials

In this tutorial, you will learn how to set up a sample Swift app with App Center for macOS. Both Objective-C and Swift are supported.

## Prerequisites

* [GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
* [XCode](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12#)

## Sign in to GitHub and fork the repository

1. Sign in to your [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

2. Access the [sample app's GitHub repository](https://github.com/VSAppCenter/sampleapp-macos-swift).

3. Click **Fork** at the top-right hand corner of the page, and clone the repository.

## Integrate CocoaPods

1. Open a terminal and go to the sample app's directory.

2. Run the command below to install CocoaPods:

   ```bash
   sudo gem install cocoapods
   ```

3. The included Podfile lists the dependencies in the source code. To install them, run the command below:

   ```bash
   pod install
   ```

4. Open the **.xcworkspace** and press **Run**. The app should build without error.

## Sign in to App Center

1. Open the [App Center portal](https://appcenter.ms).

2. Click **Connect with GitHub** and sign in, or use another provider.

## Create a new app in App Center

1. Click **Add new app**.

2. Name the app **Sample macOS App**.

3. Choose **macOS** and **Objective-C / Swift**.

4. Click **Add new app** at the bottom.  

## Replace the App Secret

In order for the sample app to send information to App Center, the app secret must be changed in Xcode.

1. Navigate to the **Settings** page in App Center.

2. Copy the **App Secret** at the top.

3. Open the **.xcworkspace** from the sample app folder.

4. In **AppDelegate.swift**, edit the `applicationDidFinishLaunching` delegate method and paste your App Secret at the placeholder.

5. **Add, commit, and push changes to your forked repository.** It can be done from the terminal, or a tool of your choice.

## Codesign the project

*Codesigning is optional, but recommended.*

Codesigning assures users that the app is from a trustworthy developer, and has not been altered by someone else. In App Center, it is needed to distribute the app to users and send push notifications. Learn more from the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/AppDistributionGuide/MaintainingProfiles/MaintainingProfiles.html).

When creating a new App ID for this sample app, be sure to check the **Push Notifications** service under the **App Services** section.

  ![Push App Service](images/AppID_push_macOS.png)

1. Open **.xcworkspace** from the sample app's folder.

2. Go to **General** within the **.xcworkspace** file.

3. Under **Identity**, edit the **Bundle Identifier** to match the app ID.

4. Import and select the provisioning profile under **Signing (Debug)** and **Signing (Release)**.

5. **Add, commit, and push changes to your forked repository.** It can be done from the terminal, or a tool of your choice.

You're all set up to try out an App Center service. Not sure what to do next? Most people build their app next; check out the **[Build Tutorial](build.md)** for a short walkthrough.
