docs/general/roadmap.md, before:

---
title: App Center Product Roadmap
description: App Center roadmap for future features/updates
keywords: roadmap
author: jwargo
ms.author: jowargo
ms.date: 10/10/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 4866fa6c-ba1b-4656-89b0-5276c11a5a28
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# App Center Product Roadmap

This document provides a peek into what's next for [Visual Studio App Center](https://appcenter.ms), and lists the features we are currently committed to delivering. It is not a comprehensive list of all new features, but is intended to provide some visibility into our key investments. Due to the nature of the software development process and the resources we have available to work on these features, we're unable to guarantee delivery dates for these features, but know that we're working hard to make App Center better every day.

## Portal UI

* Update the App Center Portal UI to render properly on mobile browsers.  The App Center portal was originally designed for desktop browsers; to accommodate mobile browsers, we’ll deliver a series of updates to create a mobile-friendly experience for our customers. It won’t come at once, but will get better over time.
* [SHIPPED] Upload app icon – Allows App Center users to upload an app icon visible in the App Center portal and notification emails. The uploaded app icon overrides the icon extracted from an uploaded build. This gives customers a more customizable product and an easier way to distinguish apps in the landing page.

## Build

* iOS App Extension Support - Configure, build, and sign an iOS app with app extensions. Build and ship robust iOS apps with various app extensions.

## Diagnostics

* Search – Add the ability to search crashes by specific fields (e.g. method name, reason, etc.). This allows developers to find their crashes of interest in a much faster way.
* UI Improvements:
  + Merged view for crashes and errors for Xamarin apps. This provides a more intuitive visualization, allowing developers to prioritize the most crucial issues in their apps, whether these are errors or crashes. 
  + Improved experience for the symbol upload process. This allows developers to quickly identify and upload their missing symbols.
* [SHIPPED] NDK – Improve the support for Android NDK. This enables developers to track their native Android crashes in App Center.
* [SHIPPED] Proguard – Improve the support for Proguard in App Center.

## Distribution

* [SHIPPED] Publishing MAM wrapped iOS apps to the Intune store. Wrap your internal apps with [Microsoft Intune Mobile Application Management (MAM)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloud-platform/microsoft-intune-apps). All apps published to an Intune connection in your organization will be made MAM aware for better data protection. Your Intune administrator can apply policies from the Intune portal, and no steps are needed when publishing your apps.
* [SHIPPED] Two-factor authentication for Apple App Store – connect to the Apple App Store with Apple IDs that have two-factor authentication enabled.
* [SHIPPED] Android Native App Experience – View and install apps via a dedicated native app experience
* [SHIPPED] Azure Active Directory (AAD) support – Reuse existing Active Directory Groups to grant access to applications in App Center.


## SDK

* Add support for the [Unity](https://unity3d.com/) cross-platform game engine. This feature includes supporting Unity apps in the App Center portal and shipping the App Center SDK for Unity.  SDK will support App Center Analytics, Distribution, and Diagnostics at launch.
* Pause and Resume data transmission – Adding APIs that let you control when to send data and can be called by application code to signal the SDK to pause/resume transmission. When the transmission is paused, the SDK continues to collect the Analytics data, it just doesn’t send the data to App Center backend until the operation is resumed.
* Set SDK storage size – This API will let you configure the size of SDK storage for scenarios where developers need the ability to store as many logs as possible when the device is offline, or when they want to send the data only few times a day. In those cases, you can configure the storage size according to your needs.

## Test

* Add support for running Xamarin.UITest iOS tests locally on iOS 12 devices and simulators.
* Add support for running iOS UI automation frameworks (Appium, XCUITest, Xamarin.UITest) in the App Center device lab.
* Add devices running iOS 12 to the App Center device lab.
* Add support for Apple's latest devices [announcement expected in September, 2018] to the App Center device lab.

Commit message:

added cross links to roadmap and changelog (#900)

docs/general/roadmap.md, after:

---
title: App Center Product Roadmap
description: App Center roadmap for future features/updates
keywords: roadmap
author: jwargo
ms.author: jowargo
ms.date: 10/10/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 4866fa6c-ba1b-4656-89b0-5276c11a5a28
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# App Center Product Roadmap

This document provides a peek into what's next for [Visual Studio App Center](https://appcenter.ms), and lists the features we are currently committed to delivering. It is not a comprehensive list of all new features, but is intended to provide some visibility into our key investments. Due to the nature of the software development process and the resources we have available to work on these features, we're unable to guarantee delivery dates for these features, but know that we're working hard to make App Center better every day.

As features ship, we'll mark them as [SHIPPED] here for a few weeks before removing them from the roadmap. As soon as we mark them as shipped here, we'll add them to the [App Center Changelog](~/general/changelog.md).

## Portal UI

* Update the App Center Portal UI to render properly on mobile browsers.  The App Center portal was originally designed for desktop browsers; to accommodate mobile browsers, we’ll deliver a series of updates to create a mobile-friendly experience for our customers. It won’t come at once, but will get better over time.
* [SHIPPED] Upload app icon – Allows App Center users to upload an app icon visible in the App Center portal and notification emails. The uploaded app icon overrides the icon extracted from an uploaded build. This gives customers a more customizable product and an easier way to distinguish apps in the landing page.

## Build

* iOS App Extension Support - Configure, build, and sign an iOS app with app extensions. Build and ship robust iOS apps with various app extensions.

## Diagnostics

* Search – Add the ability to search crashes by specific fields (e.g. method name, reason, etc.). This allows developers to find their crashes of interest in a much faster way.
* UI Improvements:
  + Merged view for crashes and errors for Xamarin apps. This provides a more intuitive visualization, allowing developers to prioritize the most crucial issues in their apps, whether these are errors or crashes. 
  + Improved experience for the symbol upload process. This allows developers to quickly identify and upload their missing symbols.
* [SHIPPED] NDK – Improve the support for Android NDK. This enables developers to track their native Android crashes in App Center.
* [SHIPPED] Proguard – Improve the support for Proguard in App Center.

## Distribution

* [SHIPPED] Publishing MAM wrapped iOS apps to the Intune store. Wrap your internal apps with [Microsoft Intune Mobile Application Management (MAM)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloud-platform/microsoft-intune-apps). All apps published to an Intune connection in your organization will be made MAM aware for better data protection. Your Intune administrator can apply policies from the Intune portal, and no steps are needed when publishing your apps.
* [SHIPPED] Two-factor authentication for Apple App Store – connect to the Apple App Store with Apple IDs that have two-factor authentication enabled.
* [SHIPPED] Android Native App Experience – View and install apps via a dedicated native app experience
* [SHIPPED] Azure Active Directory (AAD) support – Reuse existing Active Directory Groups to grant access to applications in App Center.


## SDK

* Add support for the [Unity](https://unity3d.com/) cross-platform game engine. This feature includes supporting Unity apps in the App Center portal and shipping the App Center SDK for Unity.  SDK will support App Center Analytics, Distribution, and Diagnostics at launch.
* Pause and Resume data transmission – Adding APIs that let you control when to send data and can be called by application code to signal the SDK to pause/resume transmission. When the transmission is paused, the SDK continues to collect the Analytics data, it just doesn’t send the data to App Center backend until the operation is resumed.
* Set SDK storage size – This API will let you configure the size of SDK storage for scenarios where developers need the ability to store as many logs as possible when the device is offline, or when they want to send the data only few times a day. In those cases, you can configure the storage size according to your needs.

## Test

* Add support for running Xamarin.UITest iOS tests locally on iOS 12 devices and simulators.
* Add support for running iOS UI automation frameworks (Appium, XCUITest, Xamarin.UITest) in the App Center device lab.
* Add devices running iOS 12 to the App Center device lab.
* Add support for Apple's latest devices [announcement expected in September, 2018] to the App Center device lab.
