docs/general/support-center.md, before:

---
title: App Center Support
description: Useful links for customers to provide feedback, get product update
keywords: update,history,status,feature request,bugs
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 09/06/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 7c512944-95f0-4b04-9ef4-52b785940360
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# App Center Support 

## Documentation

[Product documentation](~/index.yml) 

[API documentation](~/api-docs/index.md)

[Product roadmap](~/general/roadmap.md)

## Troubleshooting

[Android SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/android.md)

[iOS SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/ios.md)

[Xamarin SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/xamarin.md)

[macOS SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/macos.md)

[Build service FAQs](~/build/faq.md)

## Recent updates  

[Product Changelog](~/general/changelog.md)

SDKs (open sourced on GitHub)

- [Android SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-android)

- [iOS/macOS SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-ios)

- [Xamarin SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-dotnet)

- [React Native SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-react-native)

## App Center status page

Check if there are any ongoing issues on the [status page](https://status.appcenter.ms).

## Contact us 
Report a bug or a make a feature request using the blue button at the bottom right of every App Center portal page and the product team will respond to you.

Commit message:

Added link to App Center Help (#684)

docs/general/support-center.md, after:

---
title: App Center Support
description: Useful links for customers to provide feedback, get product update
keywords: update,history,status,feature request,bugs
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 06/14/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 7c512944-95f0-4b04-9ef4-52b785940360
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# App Center Support

## Documentation

[Product documentation](~/index.yml)

[API documentation](~/api-docs/index.md)

[Product roadmap](~/general/roadmap.md)

## Troubleshooting

[Android SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/android.md)

[iOS SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/ios.md)

[Xamarin SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/xamarin.md)

[macOS SDK troubleshooting](~/sdk/troubleshooting/macos.md)

[Build service FAQs](~/build/faq.md)

## Recent updates  

[Product Changelog](~/general/changelog.md)

SDKs (open sourced on GitHub)

- [Android SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-android)

- [iOS/macOS SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-ios)

- [Xamarin SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-dotnet)

- [React Native SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/mobile-center-sdk-react-native)

## App Center status page

Check if there are any ongoing issues on the [App Center status page](https://status.appcenter.ms).

## Contact us

Report a bug or a make a feature request using the blue chat button at the bottom-right corner of every App Center portal page. Our dedicated support team is available to help you. [Read more about support](https://intercom.help/appcenter/getting-started/getting-help-with-app-center).
