vs-mobile-center-docs/distribution/installation.md, before:

---
title: Install a Build from Mobile Center
description: Intructions on how to install a build
keywords: distribution
author: JoshuaWeber
ms.author: JoshuaWeber
ms.date: 01/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 89a78fd8-ee2d-4f2d-9026-756047866351
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: distribute
---

# Install a Build

Installation of an application being distributed by Mobile Center begins with an email. If you have access to the application you will receive a notification email for each new version available. Simply click on the install link in the email to begin the process. You will need to enter your credentials to login. If this is your first time accessing Mobile Center, you can instead [create a new account][signup]. Once logged in you can review the application information and release notes, and click the install button to trigger installation onto your device.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> On iOS you must open the email install link in Safari, only Safari supports the installation APIs.
>
> On Android you must open the email install link in Chrome. On some devices, versions 57 and 58 of Chrome will not open the downloaded files (clicking the downloaded file will say "can't open file"). As a workaround, testers that hit this issue can use Chrome Canary instead. For more information about this bug see [Google Chrome Help Forum](https://productforums.google.com/forum/#!topic/chrome/gas7OCTHZHo) 

[login]: ~/dashboard/creating-and-managing-apps.md
[signup]: ~/dashboard/creating-and-managing-apps.md

Commit message:

Added direction for windows certificate installation during distirbution based install

vs-mobile-center-docs/distribution/installation.md, after:

---
title: Install a Build from Mobile Center
description: Intructions on how to install a build
keywords: distribution
author: JoshuaWeber
ms.author: JoshuaWeber
ms.date: 01/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 89a78fd8-ee2d-4f2d-9026-756047866351
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: distribute
---

# Install a Build

Installation of an application being distributed by Mobile Center begins with an email. If you have access to the application you will receive a notification email for each new version available. Simply click on the install link in the email to begin the process. You will need to enter your credentials to login. If this is your first time accessing Mobile Center, you can instead [create a new account][signup]. Once logged in you can review the application information and release notes, and click the install button to trigger installation onto your device.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> On iOS you must open the email install link in Safari, only Safari supports the installation APIs.
>
> On Android you must open the email install link in Chrome. On some devices, versions 57 and 58 of Chrome will not open the downloaded files (clicking the downloaded file will say "can't open file"). As a workaround, testers that hit this issue can use Chrome Canary instead. For more information about this bug see [Google Chrome Help Forum](https://productforums.google.com/forum/#!topic/chrome/gas7OCTHZHo)

## Windows and Certificates Requirements

To install a windows package requires a trusted root certificate installed in the root certificate chain for the device you are installing too. The most common solution is for the developer to sign a application package with a purchased 3rd party provider trusted root certificate. This certificate will chain to through the third party to the Microsoft root store and so will be a trusted cert for all user devices. A developer can opt to use a self create test certificate and sign the application package, however it will result in additional steps for testers at installation time.

##### Installing a build signed with a developer test certificate

You can install a test signed app by first installing the test certificate (which is automatically included in the app package) by following these steps.

1. Right-click on the .appxbundle package you downloaded via Mobile Center and select "properties".
2. Under the "Digital Signatures" tab you should see the test certificate. Click to select the certificate and click on "Details" button.
3. Select the button "View Certificate".
4. Select the button "Install Certificate".
5. From the "Store Location" radio buttons select "Local Machine". Click the "Next" button.
6. Click "Yes" on the admin prompt for changes to your device.
7. On the "Certificate Import Wizard" chose the radio button "Place all certificates in the following store" then select the "Browse" button.
8. Select the "Trusted People" certificate store. Then click the "OK" button.
9. Click the "Next" button on the "Certificate Import Wizard" window.
10. Click "Finish" button to complete the certificate install.
11. You can now close all windows and double click on the .appxbundle file. It should now install properly.


[login]: ~/dashboard/creating-and-managing-apps.md
[signup]: ~/dashboard/creating-and-managing-apps.md
