docs/build/react-native/iOS/index.md, before:

---
title: Configure a React Native iOS build in App Center
description: How to set up a build for React Native iOS apps
keywords: build, ios
author: siminapasat
ms.author: siminap
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 29111bf4-52a2-41e0-9aa3-d40f728b443a
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# Building React Native apps for iOS

App Center can build React Native apps written in React Native version 0.34 or newer.

To start building your first React Native iOS app, you will need to the following:

1. Connect to your repository service account (GitHub, Bitbucket, VSTS, Azure DevOps).
2. Select a repository and a branch where your app lives.
3. Configure the build's project or workspace, and the scheme you would like to build.

> [!NOTE]
> For the app to run on a real device, the build needs to be code signed with a valid provisioning profile and a certificate.

## 1. Linking your repository

If you haven't previously connected to your repository service account, you will need to do this. Once your account is connected, select the repository where your iOS project is located. In order to setup a build for a repository, you need admin and pull permission for it.

## 2. Selecting a branch

After selecting a repository, select the branch you want to build. By default, all the active branches will be listed. 

## 3. Setting up your first build

Before your first build, the React Native project needs to be configured.

### 3.1. Project

Select your project’s `package.json`. App Center will automatically detect the associated Xcode project/workspace.

### 3.2. Xcode version

Select the Xcode version to run the build on.

### 3.3. Build triggers

By default, a new build is triggered every time a developer pushes to a configured branch. This is referred to as "Continuous Integration". If you prefer to trigger a new build manually, you can change this setting in the configuration pane.

### 3.4. Increment build number

When enabled, the `CFBundleVersion` in the Info.plist of your app automatically increments for each build. The change happens pre-build and won't be committed to your repository.

### 3.5. Code signing

A successful build will produce an ipa file. In order to install the build on a device, it needs to be signed with a valid provisioning profile and certificate. To sign the builds produced from a branch, enable code signing in the configuration pane and upload [a provisioning profile (.mobileprovision) and a valid certificate (.p12)](~/build/ios/uploading-signing-files.md), along with the password for the certificate. The settings in your Xcode project need to be compatible with the files you are uploading. You can read more about code signing in [App Center's iOS code signing documentation](~/build/ios/code-signing.md) and in the [Apple Developer official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/support/code-signing/).

### 3.6. Launch your successful build on a real device

Use your newly produced .ipa file to test if your app starts on a real device. This will add approximately 10 more minutes to the total build time. Read more about [how to configure launch tests](~/build/build-test-integration.md).

### 3.7. CocoaPods

App Center scans the selected branch and if it finds a Podfile, it will automatically do a `pod install` step at the beginning of every build. This will ensure that all dependencies are installed.

### 3.8. Distribute to a distribution group

You can configure each successful build from a branch to be distributed to a previously created distribution group. You can add a new distribution group from within the Distribute section. There is always a default distribution group called "Collaborators" that includes all the users who have access to the app.

Once you save the configuration, a new build will be automatically kicked off.

## 4. Build results

After a build has been triggered, it can be in the following states:

- **queued** -  the build is in a queue waiting for resources to be freed up
- **building** - the build is running and performing the predefined tasks
- **succeeded** - the build is completed and it has succeeded
- **failed** - the build has completed but it has failed; you can troubleshoot what went wrong by downloading and inspecting the build log
- **canceled** - the build has been canceled by a user action or it has timed out

### 4.1. Build logs

For a completed build (succeeded or failed), download the logs to understand more about how the build went. App Center provides an archive with the following files:

```NA
|-- 1_build.txt (this is the general build log)
|-- build (this folder contains a separate log file for each build step)
    |-- <build-step-1> (e.g. 2_Get Sources.txt)
    |-- <build-step-2> (e.g. 3_Pod install.txt)
    |--
    |-- <build-step-n> (e.g. n_Post Job Cleanup.txt)
```

The build step specific logs (located in the `build/` directory of the archive) are helpful for troubleshooting and understanding in what step and why the build failed.

### 4.2. The app (.ipa)

The .ipa file is an iPhone application archive file which contains the iOS app.

- If the build has been signed correctly, the .ipa file can be installed on a real device corresponding to the provisioning profile used when signing. More details about code signing and distribution with App Center can be found in [App Center's iOS code signing documentation](~/build/ios/code-signing.md).
- If the build has not been signed, the .ipa file can be signed by the developer (e.g. locally using codesign) or used for other purposes (e.g. upload to Test service for UI testing on real devices or run in the simulator).
- Unsigned builds will not produce an .ipa file. The artifact of an unsigned build is the .xcarchive file which can be used to generate an .ipa file with the Xcode Archives organizer.

### 4.3. The source maps and symbol files

Upon building a React Native iOS app, a JavaScript source map and one or multiple .dsym files are automatically generated with each build and can be downloaded once the build is completed.

- if you have previously integrated the App Center SDK in your app with the crash reporting module enabled, the crash reporting beacon requires this .dsym file and the JavaScript sourcemap for a build in order to display human readable (symbolicated) crash reports
- if you have previously integrated another SDK for crash reporting purposes in your app, the corresponding service requires the .dsym file and the JavaScript sourcemap in order to display human readable (symbolicated) crash reports

Keep in mind that the .dsym file does not change upon code signing the .ipa. If you decide to code sign the build later, the .dsym generated before code signing is still valid.

If this app has the crashes SDK integrated, iOS symbols and source maps will automatically be sent to App Center Crashes service to enable human readable (symbolicated) crash reports at both the native and JavaScript stack.

## 5. Build tips

### 5.1. Yarn

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) is a faster, more deterministic replacement for `npm`. If a `yarn.lock` file is present in your repo next to `package.json`, then App Center will use Yarn, doing `yarn install` at the start of the build. Otherwise, it will do `npm install`.

### 5.2. Custom build scripts

In addition to App Center's [custom build scripts](~/build/custom/scripts/index.md) you might want to use [npm-scripts](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) for example when your React Native app uses TypeScript and you have to run the `tsc` compiler at build start. Add a `postinstall` script in the `package.json` like this:

```javascript
  "scripts": {
    ...
    "postinstall" : "./postinstall.sh"     [other examples: "node ./postinstall.js" or just a single command like "tsc"]
  },
```

Postinstall scripts run right after all the `package.json` packages are installed, so you use those packages in your script.

Commit message:

Add info about signing iOS app extensions (#955)
* Add info about signing iOS app extensions

* Update code-signing.md

* Update index.md

* Fix typo

* Fixing typo and dates

* Update code-signing.md

docs/build/react-native/iOS/index.md, after:

---
title: Configure a React Native iOS build in App Center
description: How to set up a build for React Native iOS apps
keywords: build, ios
author: nrajpurkar
ms.author: nirajpur
ms.date: 11/19/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 29111bf4-52a2-41e0-9aa3-d40f728b443a
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# Building React Native apps for iOS

App Center can build React Native apps written in React Native version 0.34 or newer.

To start building your first React Native iOS app, you will need to the following:

1. Connect to your repository service account (GitHub, Bitbucket, VSTS, Azure DevOps).
2. Select a repository and a branch where your app lives.
3. Configure the build's project or workspace, and the scheme you would like to build.

> [!NOTE]
> For the app to run on a real device, the build needs to be code signed with a valid provisioning profile and a certificate.

## 1. Linking your repository

If you haven't previously connected to your repository service account, you will need to do this. Once your account is connected, select the repository where your iOS project is located. In order to setup a build for a repository, you need admin and pull permission for it.

## 2. Selecting a branch

After selecting a repository, select the branch you want to build. By default, all the active branches will be listed. 

## 3. Setting up your first build

Before your first build, the React Native project needs to be configured.

### 3.1. Project

Select your project’s `package.json`. App Center will automatically detect the associated Xcode project/workspace.

### 3.2. Xcode version

Select the Xcode version to run the build on.

### 3.3. Build triggers

By default, a new build is triggered every time a developer pushes to a configured branch. This is referred to as "Continuous Integration". If you prefer to trigger a new build manually, you can change this setting in the configuration pane.

### 3.4. Increment build number

When enabled, the `CFBundleVersion` in the Info.plist of your app automatically increments for each build. The change happens pre-build and won't be committed to your repository.

### 3.5. Code signing

A successful build will produce an ipa file. In order to install the build on a device, it needs to be signed with a valid provisioning profile and certificate. To sign the builds produced from a branch, enable code signing in the configuration pane and upload [a provisioning profile (.mobileprovision) and a valid certificate (.p12)](~/build/ios/uploading-signing-files.md), along with the password for the certificate. The settings in your Xcode project need to be compatible with the files you are uploading. You can read more about code signing in [App Center's iOS code signing documentation](~/build/ios/code-signing.md) and in the [Apple Developer official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/support/code-signing/).

Apps with [app or watchOS extensions](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/ExtensibilityPG/index.html) require an additional provisioning profile per extension in order to be signed.

### 3.6. Launch your successful build on a real device

Use your newly produced .ipa file to test if your app starts on a real device. This will add approximately 10 more minutes to the total build time. Read more about [how to configure launch tests](~/build/build-test-integration.md).

### 3.7. CocoaPods

App Center scans the selected branch and if it finds a Podfile, it will automatically do a `pod install` step at the beginning of every build. This will ensure that all dependencies are installed.

### 3.8. Distribute to a distribution group

You can configure each successful build from a branch to be distributed to a previously created distribution group. You can add a new distribution group from within the Distribute section. There is always a default distribution group called "Collaborators" that includes all the users who have access to the app.

Once you save the configuration, a new build will be automatically kicked off.

## 4. Build results

After a build has been triggered, it can be in the following states:

- **queued** -  the build is in a queue waiting for resources to be freed up
- **building** - the build is running and performing the predefined tasks
- **succeeded** - the build is completed and it has succeeded
- **failed** - the build has completed but it has failed; you can troubleshoot what went wrong by downloading and inspecting the build log
- **canceled** - the build has been canceled by a user action or it has timed out

### 4.1. Build logs

For a completed build (succeeded or failed), download the logs to understand more about how the build went. App Center provides an archive with the following files:

```NA
|-- 1_build.txt (this is the general build log)
|-- build (this folder contains a separate log file for each build step)
    |-- <build-step-1> (e.g. 2_Get Sources.txt)
    |-- <build-step-2> (e.g. 3_Pod install.txt)
    |--
    |-- <build-step-n> (e.g. n_Post Job Cleanup.txt)
```

The build step specific logs (located in the `build/` directory of the archive) are helpful for troubleshooting and understanding in what step and why the build failed.

### 4.2. The app (.ipa)

The .ipa file is an iPhone application archive file which contains the iOS app.

- If the build has been signed correctly, the .ipa file can be installed on a real device corresponding to the provisioning profile used when signing. More details about code signing and distribution with App Center can be found in [App Center's iOS code signing documentation](~/build/ios/code-signing.md).
- If the build has not been signed, the .ipa file can be signed by the developer (e.g. locally using codesign) or used for other purposes (e.g. upload to Test service for UI testing on real devices or run in the simulator).
- Unsigned builds will not produce an .ipa file. The artifact of an unsigned build is the .xcarchive file which can be used to generate an .ipa file with the Xcode Archives organizer.

### 4.3. The source maps and symbol files

Upon building a React Native iOS app, a JavaScript source map and one or multiple .dsym files are automatically generated with each build and can be downloaded once the build is completed.

- if you have previously integrated the App Center SDK in your app with the crash reporting module enabled, the crash reporting beacon requires this .dsym file and the JavaScript sourcemap for a build in order to display human readable (symbolicated) crash reports
- if you have previously integrated another SDK for crash reporting purposes in your app, the corresponding service requires the .dsym file and the JavaScript sourcemap in order to display human readable (symbolicated) crash reports

Keep in mind that the .dsym file does not change upon code signing the .ipa. If you decide to code sign the build later, the .dsym generated before code signing is still valid.

If this app has the crashes SDK integrated, iOS symbols and source maps will automatically be sent to App Center Crashes service to enable human readable (symbolicated) crash reports at both the native and JavaScript stack.

## 5. Build tips

### 5.1. Yarn

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) is a faster, more deterministic replacement for `npm`. If a `yarn.lock` file is present in your repo next to `package.json`, then App Center will use Yarn, doing `yarn install` at the start of the build. Otherwise, it will do `npm install`.

### 5.2. Custom build scripts

In addition to App Center's [custom build scripts](~/build/custom/scripts/index.md) you might want to use [npm-scripts](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) for example when your React Native app uses TypeScript and you have to run the `tsc` compiler at build start. Add a `postinstall` script in the `package.json` like this:

```javascript
  "scripts": {
    ...
    "postinstall" : "./postinstall.sh"     [other examples: "node ./postinstall.js" or just a single command like "tsc"]
  },
```

Postinstall scripts run right after all the `package.json` packages are installed, so you use those packages in your script.
