vs-mobile-center-docs/general/azure-subscriptions/index.md, before:

# Azure Subscriptions

While using the free tier, you do not need an Azure subscription, but once you decide to upgrade your plan you will be asked to connect your org/user account to an Azure Subscription.

With an Azure subscription you can manage all the billing and control the different costs of your team's usage.

 In this section we walk you through the following scenarios: 

- Connect an existing Azure subscription to my org/user settings 
- Create a new Azure Subscription and link it to my org/user settings  

#Connecting to an existing Azure subscription

If you already have an Azure subscription, that you have an "Owner" role on, you can connect it to your org/user settings. 

[!WARNING]
> Once you add an Azure subscription to an org, any org admin can use it to change billing settings within the same org. Org admins can make these changes to your Azure subscription without having to have an "Owner" role assigned to them.


1.	First, you will have to choose the plan you would like to purchase for your org/user settings. If you haven't connected your org/user to an Azure subscription before, you will see a pop-up asking your to connect your Azure Subscription. Click "Connect".

1.	Enter your email to sign-in to Azure. You need a Work/School account or a Microsoft account. 

1. After signing-in, select your subscription from the list of subscriptions.

1. You will be re-directed to the billing page and you can continue your checkout process. 

# Create a new Azure Subscription

Creating a new Azure Subscription is easy and takes few minutes. 
 
1.	First, you will have to choose the plan you would like to purchase for your org/user settings. If you haven't connected your org/user to an Azure subscription before, you will see a pop-up asking your to connect your Azure Subscription. Click "Connect".


1.	Enter your email to sign-in to Azure. You need a Work/School account or a Microsoft account. If you already have an account skip to step 5.

1. If you don't have an account already,enter your email, then click on "get a new Microsoft account".

1. Enter your email (username), password, and follow the verification step.

1. After signing-in, if you don't have any subscriptions, click on "Create New Subscription".

1. Choose the account you just created from the list.

1.	You'll be re-directed to an Azure subscription creation page (Pay as you go) subscription.

5.	Enter your billing information and the rest of required information.

6.	Click "Done"

7.	After few minutes, you will be redirected back to App Center billing page to proceed with your checkout.

# Azure subscription FAQ

- Can I use my Free Azure subscription or credits from my Dev Essentials subscription?

    No, free Azure Subscriptions or credits from Dev Essentials subscriptions cannot be used to pay for App Center

- Can I use an Azure Subscription with spending limits?

    No, before you can select your subscription you need to turn spending limits off permanently. Learn more [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/billing/billing-spending-limit).

- How often will I see charges from App Center on my Azure bill?

    Charges from App Center will show up daily on your Azure Subsription usage, but you will be billed once for the whole calendar month at the begining of your following billing cycle. 


 - Where can I see my App Center billing information?

    You can see your billing information as part of your Azure Subscription monthly bill. Here's how to get your invoice to your email as a .pdf document:
 
    1.	Select your subscription from the Subscriptions page. Opt-in for each subscription you own. Click Invoices then Email my invoice.
    2.	Click Opt in and accept the terms.
    3.	Once you've accepted the agreement, you can configure additional recipients.
    4.	If you don't get an email after following the steps, make sure your email address is correct in the communication preferences on your profile.
    More options and information about this can be found here.

Commit message:

Pricing Docs updates for GA (#359)
* formatting fixes and add YAML header

* formatting fixes

* Updated formatting and edits to billing details

* Formatting fixes to pricing pages

* modified FAQ formatting to match others

* missing spaces

* one more

* pricing hyperlink fixed

* Cleanup wording and some slight tweaks to formatting

* minor bullet fix

vs-mobile-center-docs/general/azure-subscriptions/index.md, after:

---
title: App Center Azure Subscription Info
description: Information about App Center Azure Subscription integration.
keywords: pricing
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 11/13/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: E1803020-0E6C-42EF-A4D3-FBCB15D7B220
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# Azure Subscriptions

While using the free tier, you do not need an Azure subscription, but once you decide to upgrade your plan you will be asked to connect your org/user account to an Azure Subscription.

With an Azure subscription you can manage all the billing and control the different costs of your team's usage.

 In this section we walk you through the following scenarios: 

- Connect an existing Azure subscription to my org/user settings.
- Create a new Azure Subscription and link it to my org/user settings.  


## Connecting to an existing Azure subscription


If you already have an Azure subscription that you have an "Owner" role on, you can connect it to your org/user settings. 

> [!WARNING]

> Once you add an Azure subscription to an org, any org admin can use it to change billing settings within the same org. Org admins can make these changes to your Azure subscription without having to have an "Owner" role assigned to them.


1.	First, you will have to choose the plan you would like to purchase for your org/user settings. If you haven't connected your org/user to an Azure subscription before, you will see a pop-up asking your to connect your Azure Subscription. Click **Connect**.

1.	Enter your email to sign-in to Azure. You need a Work/School account or a Microsoft account. 

1. After signing-in, select your subscription from the list of subscriptions.

1. You will be re-directed to the billing page and you can continue your checkout process. 

## Create a new Azure Subscription

Creating a new Azure Subscription is easy and takes few minutes. 
 
1.	First, you will have to choose the plan you would like to purchase for your org/user settings. If you haven't connected your org/user to an Azure subscription before, you will see a pop-up asking your to connect your Azure Subscription. Click **Connect**.


1.	Enter your email to sign-in to Azure. You need a Work/School account or a Microsoft account. If you already have an account skip to step 5.

1. If you don't have an account already,enter your email, then click on **get a new Microsoft account**.

1. Enter your email (username), password, and follow the verification step.

1. After signing-in, if you don't have any subscriptions, click on **Create New Subscription**.

1. Choose the account you just created from the list.

1.	You'll be re-directed to an Azure subscription creation page (Pay as you go) subscription.

5.	Enter your billing information and the rest of required information.

6.	Click "Done"

7.	After few minutes, you will be redirected back to App Center billing page to proceed with your checkout.

## FAQ

- Can I use my Free Azure subscription or credits from my Dev Essentials subscription?

    No, free Azure Subscriptions or credits from Dev Essentials subscriptions cannot be used to pay for App Center

- Can I use an Azure Subscription with spending limits?

    No, before you can select your subscription you need to turn spending limits off permanently. Learn more [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/billing/billing-spending-limit).

- How often will I see charges from App Center on my Azure bill?

    Charges from App Center will show up daily on your Azure Subsription usage, but you will be billed once for the whole calendar month at the begining of your following billing cycle. 


- Where can I see my App Center billing information?

    You can see your billing information as part of your Azure Subscription monthly bill. Here's how to get your invoice to your email as a .pdf document:
 
    1.	Select your subscription from the Subscriptions page. Opt-in for each subscription you own. Click Invoices then Email my invoice.
    2.	Click Opt in and accept the terms.
    3.	Once you've accepted the agreement, you can configure additional recipients.
    4.	If you don't get an email after following the steps, make sure your email address is correct in the communication preferences on your profile.
    More options and information about this can be found here.
