docs/build/build-to-store.md, before:

---
title: Distributing your build to the store
description: How to distribute your app to the store
keywords: build, ios, android, store, distribute
author: nrajpurkar
ms.author: nirajpur
ms.date: 04/20/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 2684ff69-d7e8-4215-abd5-fe830bf75ead
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
---

# Distributing a build to the store
In this document, you'll learn how to successfully distribute your build to a store. You'll be able to get your completed app to the store directly from App Center.

## Automatically distribute from your branch configuration
First, the branch needs to be setup before it's ready to automatically distribute to the store. You can read more about configuring your branch in the _Configure a build_ articles respectively for [Android](~/build/android/first-build.md) and [iOS](~/build/ios/first-build.md).

Use the branch configuration to define the target store for the build. If you have not already connected to a store, you'll see the ability to do so from the drop-down. Follow the instructions to set up a [store connection](~/distribution/stores/index.md).

![Connect to store][distribute-to-store]

With the store connected, simply choose the store you'd like to automatically distribute successful builds to. Ensure you've signed the app with the correct signing credentials to distribute to a store. After you pick the store you want to distribute to, click **Save** or **Save and Build**. Your app will be distributed to the selected store on each successful build!

> [!TIP]
> The recommended workflow is configuring a branch to distribute to the store with the correct signing crednetials and configuration. Merge to and build this branch only when you want to distribute to a store.

Commit message:

fix image and add to TOC (#603)
* fix image and add to TOC

* Update build-to-store.md

docs/build/build-to-store.md, after:

---
title: Distributing your build to the store
description: How to distribute your app to the store
keywords: build, ios, android, store, distribute
author: nrajpurkar
ms.author: nirajpur
ms.date: 04/20/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 2684ff69-d7e8-4215-abd5-fe830bf75ead
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
---

# Distributing a build to the store
In this document, you'll learn how to distribute your build to a store. You'll be able to get your completed app to the store directly from App Center.

## Automatically distribute from your branch configuration
First, the branch needs to be setup before it's ready to automatically distribute to the store. You can read more about configuring your branch in the _Configure a build_ articles respectively for [Android](~/build/android/first-build.md) and [iOS](~/build/ios/first-build.md).

Use the branch configuration to define the target store for the build. If you have not already connected to a store, you'll see the ability to do so from the drop-down. Follow the instructions to set up a [store connection](~/distribution/stores/index.md).

![An image showing how to connect to a store using the drop-down](~/build/images/distribute-to-store)

With the store connected, simply choose the store you'd like to automatically distribute successful builds to. Ensure you've signed the app with the correct signing credentials to distribute to a store. After you pick the store you want to distribute to, click **Save** or **Save and Build**. Your app will be distributed to the selected store on each successful build!

> [!TIP]
> The recommended workflow is configuring a branch to distribute to the store with the correct signing crednetials and configuration. Merge to and build this branch only when you want to distribute to a store.
