docs/build/connect.md, before:

---
title: Connect to a repository to start building your mobile app
description: How to connect/reconnect to a repository to start building your app
keywords: android
author: siminapasat
ms.author: siminap
ms.date: 04/13/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.assetid: 1EFB8DFD-76D5-4F8C-B73A-2CFBE3E3BD97
---

# Connecting to a source repository 

To start building an app, you need to firstly connect to your code repository service (GitHub, Bitbucket, VSTS) account, select a repository and a branch where your app lives and then you can set up your first build. To connect to the repository service, you will have to go through an Oauth flow and give App Center permissions.

With so many identities, apps (work or personal apps) and authentication methods, you might end up with your App Center account connected to a different code repository service than where your app(s) are living.


### I have connected to the wrong account to start building my apps with. How can I re-connect to the correct account?
If you have connected to a source repository service with the wrong account, you will have to go to your User settings in the source hosting service (VSTS, GitHub or Bitbucket) and revoke the Oauth token manually. Then you will be able to re-connect to another account in App Center.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Keep in mind that if you connect to a new account, you will lose all the build configuration and previous builds for ALL the apps configured with the previous account.

#### Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS)
In order to connect to another VSTS account to build your apps, first step is to revoke the Oauth token. Go to https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/me > Manage Authorizations (See screenshot below) > Revoke App Center token. Once revoked, it takes up to 60 minutes for that token to lose access, so you will have to wait until you can connect App Center with another VSTS account. Then, go back to App Center in the build tab, reconnect to VSTS and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in the browser from the identity that you used to connect to the previous VSTS account.

![Remove VSTS Oauth Token][remove-vsts-oauth-token]

#### GitHub
If you logged in into App Center with a GitHub account, you can only build apps from repositories under that GitHub account.

If you logged in into App Center with another method, but you have connected to the wrong GitHub account, first step is to revoke the Oauth token: go to https://github.com/settings/profile > Applications > Authorized OAuth Apps > Revoke App Center token. Then, go back to App Center in the build tab, reconnect to GitHub and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in that browser from GitHub first.

![Remove GitHub Oauth Token][remove-github-oauth-token]

#### Bitbucket
In order to connect to another Bitbucket account to build your apps, first step is to revoke the Oauth token: go to https://bitbucket.org/account/ > Access Management (Oauth) > Revoke App Center token. Then, go back to App Center in the build tab, reconnect to Bitbucket and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in that browser from Bitbucket first. 

![Remove Bitbucket Oauth Token][remove-bitbucket-oauth-token]

[remove-vsts-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-vsts-oauth-token.jpg "Remove VSTS token"
[remove-github-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-github-oauth-token.jpg "Remove GitHub token"
[remove-bitbucket-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-bitbucket-oauth-token.jpg "Remove Bitbucket token"

Commit message:

In which our hero fixes the source control connection doc (#694)
* Cleaning up this doc

* addressing fixes and alphabetizing the providers

docs/build/connect.md, after:

---
title: Connect to a repository to start building your mobile app
description: How to connect/reconnect to a repository to start building your app
keywords: android
author: siminapasat
ms.author: siminap
ms.date: 06/20/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.assetid: 1EFB8DFD-76D5-4F8C-B73A-2CFBE3E3BD97
---

# Managing source repository connections

App Center supports connections to the following code repository services: [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/), [GitHub](https://github.com/), and [VSTS](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/team-services/). Build apps in App Center by connecting to one of these providers.

## Connecting to a source repository

To build an app, connect to your code repository service account by selecting the appropriate service from the **Build** tab in your app. Sign-in using the code repository service account credentials if you are not already signed in. Authorizing App Center is required to complete the connection.

Available repositories will populate in App Center after a successful connection. Select a repository and a branch where your app lives and set up your first build.

## Removing connections and re-connecting

With so many identities, apps (work or personal apps) and authentication methods, you might end up with your App Center account connected to a different code repository service than where your app(s) are living.

If you have connected to a source repository service with the wrong account, you will have to go to your User settings in the source hosting service (VSTS, GitHub or Bitbucket) and revoke the Oauth token manually. Then you will be able to re-connect to another account in App Center.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Keep in mind that if you connect to a new account, you will lose all the build configuration and previous builds for ALL the apps configured with the previous account.

### Bitbucket
To connect to another GitHub account, first revoke the Oauth token. Go to [https://bitbucket.org/account/](https://bitbucket.org/account/) > Access Management (Oauth) > Revoke App Center token. In App Center's **Build** tab, reconnect to GitHub and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in that browser from Bitbucket first. 

![Remove Bitbucket Oauth Token][remove-bitbucket-oauth-token]

### GitHub
If you logged in into App Center with a GitHub account, you can only build apps from repositories under that GitHub account.

To connect to [https://github.com/settings/profile](https://github.com/settings/profile) > Applications > Authorized OAuth Apps > Revoke App Center token. In App Center's **Build** tab, reconnect to GitHub and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in that browser from GitHub first.

![Remove GitHub Oauth Token][remove-github-oauth-token]
### Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS)
To connect to another VSTS account, first revoke the Oauth token. Go to [https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/me](https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/me) > Manage Authorizations (See screenshot below) > Revoke App Center token. In App Center's **Build** tab, reconnect to VSTS and go through the Oauth flow again. Make sure that before you re-do the Oauth flow in App Center, you log out in the browser from the identity that you used to connect to the previous VSTS account.

> [!NOTE]
> It can take up to 60 minutes for the VSTS token to lose access. After access expires, you can connect App Center to another VSTS account.

![Remove VSTS Oauth Token][remove-vsts-oauth-token]

[remove-vsts-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-vsts-oauth-token.jpg "Remove VSTS token"
[remove-github-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-github-oauth-token.jpg "Remove GitHub token"
[remove-bitbucket-oauth-token]: ~/build/images/remove-bitbucket-oauth-token.jpg "Remove Bitbucket token"
