vs-mobile-center-docs/TOC.md, before:

# [Mobile Center Overview](index.md)

# [Dashboard](dashboard/index.md)

# [Build](build/index.md)
## [iOS](build/ios/index.md)
### [Configure a build](build/ios/first-build/index.md)
#### [Xcode](build/ios/first-build/xcode.md)
#### [Xamarin](build/ios/first-build/xamarin.md)
#### [React Native](build/ios/first-build/react-native.md)
### [Code Signing](build/ios/code-signing/index.md)
#### [Uploading the code signing files](build/ios/code-signing/uploading-files.md)
#### [Setting up an Xcode project for code signing](build/ios/code-signing/xcode-project.md)
## [Android](build/android/index.md)
### [Configure a build](build/android/first-build/index.md)
#### [Java](build/android/first-build/java.md)
#### [Xamarin](build/android/first-build/xamarin.md)
#### [React Native](build/android/first-build/react-native.md)
## [Cloud build machines](build/software.md)
## [FAQ](build/faq.md)

# [Test](test-cloud/index.md)
## [Getting Started](test-cloud/getting-started.md)
## [Core Concepts](test-cloud/core-concepts.md)
## [Preparing Test for Upload](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md)
### [Appium](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/appium.md)
### [Espresso](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/espresso.md)
### [Calabash](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/calabash.md)
### [Xamarin.UITest](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/uitest.md)
## [Starting a Test Run](test-cloud/starting-a-test-run.md)
## [Security](test-cloud/security.md)
## [Supported Test Frameworks](test-cloud/supported-frameworks.md)

# [Distribute](distribution/index.md)
## [Release a build](distribution/uploading.md)
## [Manage Distribution Groups](distribution/groups.md)
## [Install a build](distribution/installation.md)


# [Tables](azure/tables/index.md)
## [Azure](azure/index.md)
# [Identity](azure/identity/index.md)
## [Active Directory](azure/identity/azuread.md)
## [Facebook](azure/identity/facebook.md)
## [Google](azure/identity/google.md)
## [Microsoft Account](azure/identity/microsoft.md)
## [Twitter](azure/identity/twitter.md)


# [Crashes](crashes/index.md)
## [Android](crashes/android.md)
## [iOS](crashes/ios.md)
## [React Native](crashes/react-native.md)

# [Analytics](analytics/index.md)
## [Android](analytics/android.md)
## [iOS](analytics/ios.md)
## [React Native](analytics/react-native.md)
## [Audience Page](analytics/understand-audience.md)
## [Events Metrics](analytics/understand-events.md)
## [Log Flow Page](analytics/understand-log-flow.md)
## [FAQ](analytics/faq.md)


# [SDK](sdk/index.md)
## Getting Started
### [Android](sdk/getting-started/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/getting-started/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/getting-started/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/getting-started/xamarin.md)
## Analytics
### [Android](sdk/analytics/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/analytics/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/analytics/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/analytics/xamarin.md)
## Crashes
### [Android](sdk/crashes/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/crashes/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/crashes/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/crashes/xamarin.md)
## Tables
### [Android](sdk/azure/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/azure/ios.md)
## Identity
### [Android](sdk/azure/identity/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/azure/identity/ios.md)
## Advanced APIs
### [Android](sdk/advanced-apis/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/advanced-apis/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/advanced-apis/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/advanced-apis/xamarin.md)
## [Troubleshooting](sdk/troubleshooting.md)
## [Limitations](sdk/limitations.md)

# [General](general/index.md)
## [Changelog](general/changelog.md)
## [Product Roadmap](general/roadmap.md)
## [Pricing](general/pricing.md)

# Reference
## [API docs](api-docs/index.md)
## [Command Line Interface](cli/index.md)

Commit message:

restore build/android/code-sign to navigation

vs-mobile-center-docs/TOC.md, after:

# [Mobile Center Overview](index.md)

# [Dashboard](dashboard/index.md)

# [Build](build/index.md)
## [iOS](build/ios/index.md)
### [Configure a build](build/ios/first-build/index.md)
#### [Xcode](build/ios/first-build/xcode.md)
#### [Xamarin](build/ios/first-build/xamarin.md)
#### [React Native](build/ios/first-build/react-native.md)
### [Code Signing](build/ios/code-signing/index.md)
#### [Uploading the code signing files](build/ios/code-signing/uploading-files.md)
#### [Setting up an Xcode project for code signing](build/ios/code-signing/xcode-project.md)
## [Android](build/android/index.md)
### [Configure a build](build/android/first-build/index.md)
#### [Java](build/android/first-build/java.md)
#### [Xamarin](build/android/first-build/xamarin.md)
#### [React Native](build/android/first-build/react-native.md)
### [Code Signing](build/android/code-signing/index.md)
#### [Setting up an Android project for code signing](build/android/code-signing/setup.md)
## [Cloud build machines](build/software.md)
## [FAQ](build/faq.md)

# [Test](test-cloud/index.md)
## [Getting Started](test-cloud/getting-started.md)
## [Core Concepts](test-cloud/core-concepts.md)
## [Preparing Test for Upload](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md)
### [Appium](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/appium.md)
### [Espresso](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/espresso.md)
### [Calabash](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/calabash.md)
### [Xamarin.UITest](test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/uitest.md)
## [Starting a Test Run](test-cloud/starting-a-test-run.md)
## [Security](test-cloud/security.md)
## [Supported Test Frameworks](test-cloud/supported-frameworks.md)

# [Distribute](distribution/index.md)
## [Release a build](distribution/uploading.md)
## [Manage Distribution Groups](distribution/groups.md)
## [Install a build](distribution/installation.md)


# [Tables](azure/tables/index.md)
## [Azure](azure/index.md)
# [Identity](azure/identity/index.md)
## [Active Directory](azure/identity/azuread.md)
## [Facebook](azure/identity/facebook.md)
## [Google](azure/identity/google.md)
## [Microsoft Account](azure/identity/microsoft.md)
## [Twitter](azure/identity/twitter.md)


# [Crashes](crashes/index.md)
## [Android](crashes/android.md)
## [iOS](crashes/ios.md)
## [React Native](crashes/react-native.md)

# [Analytics](analytics/index.md)
## [Android](analytics/android.md)
## [iOS](analytics/ios.md)
## [React Native](analytics/react-native.md)
## [Audience Page](analytics/understand-audience.md)
## [Events Metrics](analytics/understand-events.md)
## [Log Flow Page](analytics/understand-log-flow.md)
## [FAQ](analytics/faq.md)


# [SDK](sdk/index.md)
## Getting Started
### [Android](sdk/getting-started/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/getting-started/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/getting-started/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/getting-started/xamarin.md)
## Analytics
### [Android](sdk/analytics/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/analytics/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/analytics/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/analytics/xamarin.md)
## Crashes
### [Android](sdk/crashes/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/crashes/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/crashes/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/crashes/xamarin.md)
## Tables
### [Android](sdk/azure/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/azure/ios.md)
## Identity
### [Android](sdk/azure/identity/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/azure/identity/ios.md)
## Advanced APIs
### [Android](sdk/advanced-apis/android.md)
### [iOS](sdk/advanced-apis/ios.md)
### [React Native](sdk/advanced-apis/react-native.md)
### [Xamarin](sdk/advanced-apis/xamarin.md)
## [Troubleshooting](sdk/troubleshooting.md)
## [Limitations](sdk/limitations.md)

# [General](general/index.md)
## [Changelog](general/changelog.md)
## [Product Roadmap](general/roadmap.md)
## [Pricing](general/pricing.md)

# Reference
## [API docs](api-docs/index.md)
## [Command Line Interface](cli/index.md)
