docs/sdk/distribute/ios.md, before:

---
title: App Center Distribute for iOS
description: Using in-app updates in App Center Distribute
keywords: sdk, distribute
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 05/14/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: f91fcd0b-d5e6-4c74-89a8-f71c2ee57556
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ios
dev_langs:
 - swift
 - objc
---

# App Center Distribute – In-app updates

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

App Center Distribute will let your users install a new version of the app when you distribute it via App Center. With a new version of the app available, the SDK will present an update dialog to the users to either download or postpone the new version. Once they choose to update, the SDK will start to update your application. 

> [!NOTE]
> There are a few things to consider when using in-app updates:
> 
> 1. If you have released your app in the App Store, in-app updates will be disabled.
> 2. If you are running automated UI tests, enabled in-app updates will block your automated UI tests as they will try to authenticate against the App Center backend. We recommend to not enable App Center Distribute for your UI test target. 

## Add in-app updates to your app

Please follow the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/ios.md) section if you haven't configured the SDK in your application.

### 1. Add the App Center Distribute module

The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – you only need to integrate the modules of the services that you're interested in.


#### Integration via Cocoapods

If you are integrating App Center into your app via Cocoapods, add the following dependency to your podfile and run `pod install`.

```ruby
pod 'AppCenter/Distribute'
```

#### Integration by copying the binaries into your project

If you wish to manually integrate the module, follow this [documentation link](~/sdk/distribute/ios-manual-integration.md).

### 2. Start App Center Distribute

App Center only uses the specific modules you invoke in your application. You must explicitly call each of them when starting the SDK.

#### 2.1 Add the import for App Center Distribute

Open the project's **AppDelegate.m** file in Objective-C or **AppDelegate.swift** file in Swift and add the following import statements:

```objc
@import AppCenter;
@import AppCenterDistribute;
```
```swift
import AppCenter
import AppCenterDistribute
```

#### 2.2 Add the `start:withServices:` method

Add `MSDistribute` to your `start:withServices:` method to start App Center Distribute service.

Insert the following line to start the SDK in the project's **AppDelegate.m** class for Objective-C or **AppDelegate.swift** class for Swift in the `didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method.

```objc
[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSDistribute class]]];
```
```swift
MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSDistribute.self])
```

Make sure you have replaced `{Your App Secret}` in the code sample above with your App Secret. Please also check out the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/ios.md) section if you haven't configured the SDK in your application.

#### 2.3 Modify the project's **Info.plist**

> [!NOTE]
> If you've previously configured App Center Auth, the `URL types` key may already be present. In this case, add a new entry to the `URL types` key by following the instructions from step 3.

1. In the project's **Info.plist** file, add a new key for `URL types` by clicking the '+' button next to "Information Property List" at the top. If Xcode displays your **Info.plist** as source code, refer to the tip below.
2. Change the key type to Array.
3. Add a new entry to the array (`Item 0`) and change the type to Dictionary.
4. Under `Item 0`, add a `URL Schemes` key and change the type to Array.
5. Under your `URL Schemes` key, add a new entry (`Item 0`).
6. Under `URL Schemes` > `Item 0`, change the value to `appcenter-{APP_SECRET}` and replace `{APP_SECRET}` with the App Secret of your app.

> [!TIP]
> If you want to verify that you modified the Info.plist correctly, open it as source code. It should contain the following entry with your App Secret instead of `{APP_SECRET}`:
> ```xml
> <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
> <array>
> 	<dict>
> 		<key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
> 		<array>
> 			<string>appcenter-{APP_SECRET}</string>
> 		</array>
> 	</dict>
> </array>
> ```

## Customize or localize the in-app update dialog

### 1. Customize or localize text

You can easily provide your own resource strings if you'd like to localize the text displayed in the update dialog. Look at [this strings file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/blob/master/AppCenterDistribute/AppCenterDistribute/Resources/en.lproj/AppCenterDistribute.strings). Use the same string name/key and specify the localized value to be reflected in the dialog in your own app strings files.

### 2. Customize the update dialog

You can customize the default update dialog's appearance by implementing the `MSDistributeDelegate` protocol. You need to register the delegate before starting the SDK as shown in the following example:

```objc
[MSDistribute setDelegate:self];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setDelegate(self);
```

Here is an example of the delegate implementation that replaces the SDK dialog with a custom one:

```objc
- (BOOL)distribute:(MSDistribute *)distribute releaseAvailableWithDetails:(MSReleaseDetails *)details {

  // Your code to present your UI to the user, e.g. an UIAlertController.
  UIAlertController *alertController = [UIAlertController
      alertControllerWithTitle:@"Update available."
                       message:@"Do you want to update?"
                preferredStyle:UIAlertControllerStyleAlert];

  [alertController
      addAction:[UIAlertAction actionWithTitle:@"Update"
                                         style:UIAlertActionStyleCancel
                                       handler:^(UIAlertAction *action) {
                                         [MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionUpdate];
                                       }]];

  [alertController
      addAction:[UIAlertAction actionWithTitle:@"Postpone"
                                         style:UIAlertActionStyleDefault
                                       handler:^(UIAlertAction *action) {
                                         [MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionPostpone];
                                       }]];

  // Show the alert controller.
  [self.window.rootViewController presentViewController:alertController animated:YES completion:nil];
  return YES;
}
```
```swift
func distribute(_ distribute: MSDistribute!, releaseAvailableWith details: MSReleaseDetails!) -> Bool {

  // Your code to present your UI to the user, e.g. an UIAlertController.
  let alertController = UIAlertController(title: "Update available.",
                                        message: "Do you want to update?",
                                 preferredStyle:.alert)

  alertController.addAction(UIAlertAction(title: "Update", style: .cancel) {_ in
    MSDistribute.notify(.update)
  })

  alertController.addAction(UIAlertAction(title: "Postpone", style: .default) {_ in
    MSDistribute.notify(.postpone)
  })

  // Show the alert controller.
  self.window?.rootViewController?.present(alertController, animated: true)
  return true;
}
```

In case you return `YES`/`true` in the above method, your app should obtain user's choice and message the SDK with the result using the following API.

```objc
// Depending on the user's choice, call notifyUpdateAction: with the right value.
[MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionUpdate];
[MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionPostpone];
```
```swift
// Depending on the user's choice, call notify() with the right value.
MSDistribute.notify(MSUpdateAction.update);
MSDistribute.notify(MSUpdateAction.postpone);
```

If you don't call the above method, the `releaseAvailableWithDetails:`-method will repeat whenever your app is entering to the foreground.

## Enable or disable App Center Distribute at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Distribute at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not provide any in-app update functionality but you can still use Distribute service in App Center portal.

```objc
[MSDistribute setEnabled:NO];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Distribute again, use the same API but pass `YES`/`true` as a parameter.

```objc
[MSDistribute setEnabled:YES];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setEnabled(true)
```

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

## Check if App Center Distribute is enabled

You can also check if App Center Distribute is enabled or not:

```objc
BOOL enabled = [MSDistribute isEnabled];
```
```swift
var enabled = MSDistribute.isEnabled()
```

## Don't initialize App Center Distribute during development

App Center Distribute will pop up it's UI/browser at application start. While this is an expected behavior for your end users, it could be disruptive for you during the development stage of your application. We do not recommend to initialize `MSDistribute` for your `DEBUG` configuration.

 ```objc
 #if DEBUG
 	[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class]]];
 #else
 	[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class], [MSDistribute class]]];
 #endif
 ```
 ```swift
 #if DEBUG
 	MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self])
 #else
 	MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self, MSDistribute.self])
 #endif
 ```

## How do in-app updates work?

The in-app updates feature works as follows:

1. This feature will ONLY work with builds that are distributed using **App Center Distribute** service. It won't work when the debugger is attached or if the iOS Guided Access feature is turned on..
2. Once you integrate the SDK, build a release version of your app and upload it to App Center, users in that distribution group will be notified for the new release via an email.
3. When each user opens the link in their email, the application will be installed on their device. It's important that they use the email link to install the app - App Center Distribute does not support in-app-updates for apps that have been installed from other sources (e.g. downloading the app from an email attachment).
4. Once the app is installed and opened for the first time after the App Center Distribute SDK has been added, a browser will open to enable in-app updates. This is a *one time* step that will not occur for subsequent releases of your app.

   * On iOS 9 and 10, an instance of `SFSafariViewController` will open within the app to authenticate the user. It will close itself automatically after the authentication succeeded.
   * On iOS 11, the user experience is similar to iOS 9 and 10 but iOS 11 will ask the user for their permission to access login information. This is a system level dialog and it cannot be customized. If the user cancels the dialog, they can continue to use the version they are testing, but they won't get in-app-updates. They will be asked to access login information again when they launch the app the next time.

5. Once the above step is successful, they should be navigated back to the app.
6. A new release of the app shows the in-app update dialog asking users to update your application if it has

   * a higher value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` or
   * an equal value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` but a higher value of `CFBundleVersion`.

> [!TIP]
> If you upload the same ipa a second time, the dialog will **NOT** appear as the binaries are identical. If you upload a **new** build with the same version properties, it will show the update dialog. The reason for this is that it is a **different** binary.

## How do I test in-app updates?

You need to upload release builds (that use the Distribute module of the App Center SDK) to the App Center Portal to test in-app updates, increasing version numbers every time.

1. Create your app in the App Center Portal if you have not done that already.
2. Create a new distribution group and name it so you can recognize that this is just meant for testing the in-app update feature.
3. Add yourself (or all people who you want to include on your test of the in-app update feature). Use a new or throw-away email address for this, that was not used for that app on App Center. This ensures that you have an experience that's close to the experience of your real testers.
4. Create a new build of your app that includes **App Center Distribute** and contains the setup logic as described below.
5. Click on the **Distribute new release** button in the portal and upload your build of the app.
6. Once the upload has finished, click **Next** and select the **Distribution group** that you just created as the **Destination** of that app distribution.
7. Review the Distribution and distribute the build to your in-app testing group.
8. People in that group will receive an invite to be testers of the app. Once they need to accept the invite, they can download the app from the App Center Portal from their mobile device. Once they have in-app updates installed, you're ready to test in-app updates.
9. Bump the version name (`CFBundleShortVersionString`) of your app.
10. Build the release version of your app and upload a new build of your app just like you did in the previous step and distribute this to the **Distribution Group** you created earlier. Members of the Distribution Group will be prompted for a new version the next time the app enters the foreground.

> [!TIP]
> Please have a look at the information on how to [utilize App Center Distribute](~/distribution/index.md) for more detailed information about **Distribution Groups** etc.
> While it is possible to use App Center Distribute to distribute a new version of your app without adding any code, adding App Center Distribute to your app's code will result in a more seamless experience for your testers and users as they get the in-app update experience.

## Disable automatic forwarding of application delegate's methods to App Center services

App Center uses swizzling to automatically forward your application delegate's methods to App Center services to improve SDK integration. Method swizzling is a way to change implementation of methods at runtime. There is a possibility of conflicts with other third party libraries or the application delegate itself. You may want to disable the App Center application delegate forwarding for all App Center services by following the steps below:

1. Open the project's **Info.plist** file.
2. Add `AppCenterAppDelegateForwarderEnabled` key and set the value to `0`. This will disable application delegate forwarding for all App Center services.
3. Add the `openURL` callback in the project's `AppDelegate` file.

```objc
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application
	            openURL:(NSURL *)url
	  sourceApplication:(NSString *)sourceApplication
	         annotation:(id)annotation {

	// Pass the url to MSDistribute.
	return [MSDistribute openURL:url];
}
```
```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, open url: URL, sourceApplication: String?, annotation: Any) -> Bool {

  // Pass the URL to MSDistribute.
  return MSDistribute.open(url as URL!)
}
```

Commit message:

Fix SDK docs for API that have to be used after start

docs/sdk/distribute/ios.md, after:

---
title: App Center Distribute for iOS
description: Using in-app updates in App Center Distribute
keywords: sdk, distribute
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 07/22/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: f91fcd0b-d5e6-4c74-89a8-f71c2ee57556
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ios
dev_langs:
 - swift
 - objc
---

# App Center Distribute – In-app updates

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

App Center Distribute will let your users install a new version of the app when you distribute it via App Center. With a new version of the app available, the SDK will present an update dialog to the users to either download or postpone the new version. Once they choose to update, the SDK will start to update your application. 

> [!NOTE]
> There are a few things to consider when using in-app updates:
> 
> 1. If you have released your app in the App Store, in-app updates will be disabled.
> 2. If you are running automated UI tests, enabled in-app updates will block your automated UI tests as they will try to authenticate against the App Center backend. We recommend to not enable App Center Distribute for your UI test target. 

## Add in-app updates to your app

Please follow the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/ios.md) section if you haven't configured the SDK in your application.

### 1. Add the App Center Distribute module

The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – you only need to integrate the modules of the services that you're interested in.


#### Integration via Cocoapods

If you are integrating App Center into your app via Cocoapods, add the following dependency to your podfile and run `pod install`.

```ruby
pod 'AppCenter/Distribute'
```

#### Integration by copying the binaries into your project

If you wish to manually integrate the module, follow this [documentation link](~/sdk/distribute/ios-manual-integration.md).

### 2. Start App Center Distribute

App Center only uses the specific modules you invoke in your application. You must explicitly call each of them when starting the SDK.

#### 2.1 Add the import for App Center Distribute

Open the project's **AppDelegate.m** file in Objective-C or **AppDelegate.swift** file in Swift and add the following import statements:

```objc
@import AppCenter;
@import AppCenterDistribute;
```
```swift
import AppCenter
import AppCenterDistribute
```

#### 2.2 Add the `start:withServices:` method

Add `MSDistribute` to your `start:withServices:` method to start App Center Distribute service.

Insert the following line to start the SDK in the project's **AppDelegate.m** class for Objective-C or **AppDelegate.swift** class for Swift in the `didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method.

```objc
[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSDistribute class]]];
```
```swift
MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSDistribute.self])
```

Make sure you have replaced `{Your App Secret}` in the code sample above with your App Secret. Please also check out the [Get started](~/sdk/getting-started/ios.md) section if you haven't configured the SDK in your application.

#### 2.3 Modify the project's **Info.plist**

> [!NOTE]
> If you've previously configured App Center Auth, the `URL types` key may already be present. In this case, add a new entry to the `URL types` key by following the instructions from step 3.

1. In the project's **Info.plist** file, add a new key for `URL types` by clicking the '+' button next to "Information Property List" at the top. If Xcode displays your **Info.plist** as source code, refer to the tip below.
2. Change the key type to Array.
3. Add a new entry to the array (`Item 0`) and change the type to Dictionary.
4. Under `Item 0`, add a `URL Schemes` key and change the type to Array.
5. Under your `URL Schemes` key, add a new entry (`Item 0`).
6. Under `URL Schemes` > `Item 0`, change the value to `appcenter-{APP_SECRET}` and replace `{APP_SECRET}` with the App Secret of your app.

> [!TIP]
> If you want to verify that you modified the Info.plist correctly, open it as source code. It should contain the following entry with your App Secret instead of `{APP_SECRET}`:
> ```xml
> <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
> <array>
> 	<dict>
> 		<key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
> 		<array>
> 			<string>appcenter-{APP_SECRET}</string>
> 		</array>
> 	</dict>
> </array>
> ```

## Customize or localize the in-app update dialog

### 1. Customize or localize text

You can easily provide your own resource strings if you'd like to localize the text displayed in the update dialog. Look at [this strings file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/blob/master/AppCenterDistribute/AppCenterDistribute/Resources/en.lproj/AppCenterDistribute.strings). Use the same string name/key and specify the localized value to be reflected in the dialog in your own app strings files.

### 2. Customize the update dialog

You can customize the default update dialog's appearance by implementing the `MSDistributeDelegate` protocol. You need to register the delegate before starting the SDK as shown in the following example:

```objc
[MSDistribute setDelegate:self];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setDelegate(self);
```

Here is an example of the delegate implementation that replaces the SDK dialog with a custom one:

```objc
- (BOOL)distribute:(MSDistribute *)distribute releaseAvailableWithDetails:(MSReleaseDetails *)details {

  // Your code to present your UI to the user, e.g. an UIAlertController.
  UIAlertController *alertController = [UIAlertController
      alertControllerWithTitle:@"Update available."
                       message:@"Do you want to update?"
                preferredStyle:UIAlertControllerStyleAlert];

  [alertController
      addAction:[UIAlertAction actionWithTitle:@"Update"
                                         style:UIAlertActionStyleCancel
                                       handler:^(UIAlertAction *action) {
                                         [MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionUpdate];
                                       }]];

  [alertController
      addAction:[UIAlertAction actionWithTitle:@"Postpone"
                                         style:UIAlertActionStyleDefault
                                       handler:^(UIAlertAction *action) {
                                         [MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionPostpone];
                                       }]];

  // Show the alert controller.
  [self.window.rootViewController presentViewController:alertController animated:YES completion:nil];
  return YES;
}
```
```swift
func distribute(_ distribute: MSDistribute!, releaseAvailableWith details: MSReleaseDetails!) -> Bool {

  // Your code to present your UI to the user, e.g. an UIAlertController.
  let alertController = UIAlertController(title: "Update available.",
                                        message: "Do you want to update?",
                                 preferredStyle:.alert)

  alertController.addAction(UIAlertAction(title: "Update", style: .cancel) {_ in
    MSDistribute.notify(.update)
  })

  alertController.addAction(UIAlertAction(title: "Postpone", style: .default) {_ in
    MSDistribute.notify(.postpone)
  })

  // Show the alert controller.
  self.window?.rootViewController?.present(alertController, animated: true)
  return true;
}
```

In case you return `YES`/`true` in the above method, your app should obtain user's choice and message the SDK with the result using the following API.

```objc
// Depending on the user's choice, call notifyUpdateAction: with the right value.
[MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionUpdate];
[MSDistribute notifyUpdateAction:MSUpdateActionPostpone];
```
```swift
// Depending on the user's choice, call notify() with the right value.
MSDistribute.notify(MSUpdateAction.update);
MSDistribute.notify(MSUpdateAction.postpone);
```

If you don't call the above method, the `releaseAvailableWithDetails:`-method will repeat whenever your app is entering to the foreground.

## Enable or disable App Center Distribute at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Distribute at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not provide any in-app update functionality but you can still use Distribute service in App Center portal.

```objc
[MSDistribute setEnabled:NO];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Distribute again, use the same API but pass `YES`/`true` as a parameter.

```objc
[MSDistribute setEnabled:YES];
```
```swift
MSDistribute.setEnabled(true)
```

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

> [!NOTE]
> This method must only be used after `MSDistribute` has been started.

## Check if App Center Distribute is enabled

You can also check if App Center Distribute is enabled or not:

```objc
BOOL enabled = [MSDistribute isEnabled];
```
```swift
var enabled = MSDistribute.isEnabled()
```

> [!NOTE]
> This method must only be used after `MSDistribute` has been started, it will always return `false` before start.

## Don't initialize App Center Distribute during development

App Center Distribute will pop up it's UI/browser at application start. While this is an expected behavior for your end users, it could be disruptive for you during the development stage of your application. We do not recommend to initialize `MSDistribute` for your `DEBUG` configuration.

 ```objc
 #if DEBUG
 	[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class]]];
 #else
 	[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class], [MSDistribute class]]];
 #endif
 ```
 ```swift
 #if DEBUG
 	MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self])
 #else
 	MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self, MSDistribute.self])
 #endif
 ```

## How do in-app updates work?

The in-app updates feature works as follows:

1. This feature will ONLY work with builds that are distributed using **App Center Distribute** service. It won't work when the debugger is attached or if the iOS Guided Access feature is turned on..
2. Once you integrate the SDK, build a release version of your app and upload it to App Center, users in that distribution group will be notified for the new release via an email.
3. When each user opens the link in their email, the application will be installed on their device. It's important that they use the email link to install the app - App Center Distribute does not support in-app-updates for apps that have been installed from other sources (e.g. downloading the app from an email attachment).
4. Once the app is installed and opened for the first time after the App Center Distribute SDK has been added, a browser will open to enable in-app updates. This is a *one time* step that will not occur for subsequent releases of your app.

   * On iOS 9 and 10, an instance of `SFSafariViewController` will open within the app to authenticate the user. It will close itself automatically after the authentication succeeded.
   * On iOS 11, the user experience is similar to iOS 9 and 10 but iOS 11 will ask the user for their permission to access login information. This is a system level dialog and it cannot be customized. If the user cancels the dialog, they can continue to use the version they are testing, but they won't get in-app-updates. They will be asked to access login information again when they launch the app the next time.

5. Once the above step is successful, they should be navigated back to the app.
6. A new release of the app shows the in-app update dialog asking users to update your application if it has

   * a higher value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` or
   * an equal value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` but a higher value of `CFBundleVersion`.

> [!TIP]
> If you upload the same ipa a second time, the dialog will **NOT** appear as the binaries are identical. If you upload a **new** build with the same version properties, it will show the update dialog. The reason for this is that it is a **different** binary.

## How do I test in-app updates?

You need to upload release builds (that use the Distribute module of the App Center SDK) to the App Center Portal to test in-app updates, increasing version numbers every time.

1. Create your app in the App Center Portal if you have not done that already.
2. Create a new distribution group and name it so you can recognize that this is just meant for testing the in-app update feature.
3. Add yourself (or all people who you want to include on your test of the in-app update feature). Use a new or throw-away email address for this, that was not used for that app on App Center. This ensures that you have an experience that's close to the experience of your real testers.
4. Create a new build of your app that includes **App Center Distribute** and contains the setup logic as described below.
5. Click on the **Distribute new release** button in the portal and upload your build of the app.
6. Once the upload has finished, click **Next** and select the **Distribution group** that you just created as the **Destination** of that app distribution.
7. Review the Distribution and distribute the build to your in-app testing group.
8. People in that group will receive an invite to be testers of the app. Once they need to accept the invite, they can download the app from the App Center Portal from their mobile device. Once they have in-app updates installed, you're ready to test in-app updates.
9. Bump the version name (`CFBundleShortVersionString`) of your app.
10. Build the release version of your app and upload a new build of your app just like you did in the previous step and distribute this to the **Distribution Group** you created earlier. Members of the Distribution Group will be prompted for a new version the next time the app enters the foreground.

> [!TIP]
> Please have a look at the information on how to [utilize App Center Distribute](~/distribution/index.md) for more detailed information about **Distribution Groups** etc.
> While it is possible to use App Center Distribute to distribute a new version of your app without adding any code, adding App Center Distribute to your app's code will result in a more seamless experience for your testers and users as they get the in-app update experience.

## Disable automatic forwarding of application delegate's methods to App Center services

App Center uses swizzling to automatically forward your application delegate's methods to App Center services to improve SDK integration. Method swizzling is a way to change implementation of methods at runtime. There is a possibility of conflicts with other third party libraries or the application delegate itself. You may want to disable the App Center application delegate forwarding for all App Center services by following the steps below:

1. Open the project's **Info.plist** file.
2. Add `AppCenterAppDelegateForwarderEnabled` key and set the value to `0`. This will disable application delegate forwarding for all App Center services.
3. Add the `openURL` callback in the project's `AppDelegate` file.

```objc
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application
	            openURL:(NSURL *)url
	  sourceApplication:(NSString *)sourceApplication
	         annotation:(id)annotation {

	// Pass the url to MSDistribute.
	return [MSDistribute openURL:url];
}
```
```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, open url: URL, sourceApplication: String?, annotation: Any) -> Bool {

  // Pass the URL to MSDistribute.
  return MSDistribute.open(url as URL!)
}
```
