docs/sdk/distribute/unity.md, before:

---
title: App Center Distribute for Unity
description: Using in-app updates in App Center Distribute
keywords: sdk, distribute
author: jwhitedev
ms.author: jawh
ms.date: 03/29/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: fc504b67-f691-41be-8914-22d32a95cce7
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: unity
---

# App Center Distribute – In-app updates

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

App Center Distribution enables your users/testers to install new versions of an app once you distribute it via App Center. Once enabled, the SDK presents an update dialog to users to either download or postpone installation of the latest update. Once they choose to update, the SDK will start to update your application.

> [!NOTE]
> There are a few things to consider when using in-app updates:
> 1. If you have released your app in the App Store or Google Play, in-app updates will be disabled and no longer work.
> 2. If you are running automated UI tests, enabled in-app updates will block your automated UI tests as they will try to authenticate against the App Center backend. We recommend disabling in-app updates for your UI tests.

## Add in-app updates to your app

### Add the App Center Distribute module

The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – a developer only needs to integrate the modules of the services that they're interested in.

Follow the [Unity getting started](~/sdk/getting-started/unity.md) docs if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet. Make sure to import the App Center Distribute package. Its name should be in the format AppCenterDistribute-v{version}.unitypackage

## Customize or localize the in-app update dialog

### 1. Customize or localize text

You can provide your own resource strings if you'd want to localize the text displayed in the update dialog. Look at the string files for iOS [in this iOS resource file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/blob/master/AppCenterDistribute/AppCenterDistribute/Resources/en.lproj/AppCenterDistribute.strings) and for Android [in this Android resource file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android/blob/master/sdk/appcenter-distribute/src/main/res/values/appcenter_distribute.xml). Use the same string name/key and specify the localized value to be reflected in the dialog in your own app resource files.

### 2. Customize the update dialog

You can customize the default update dialog's appearance by implementing the `ReleaseAvailable` callback.

>[!WARNING]
>You need to register the callback in the `Awake` method of a `MonoBehaviour` in the first scene your application loads to avoid missing any release callback invocations.

```csharp
// In this example, OnReleaseAvailable is a method name in same class
Distribute.ReleaseAvailable = OnReleaseAvailable;
```

Here is a callback implementation that replaces the SDK dialog with custom logic:

```csharp
bool OnReleaseAvailable(ReleaseDetails releaseDetails)
{
    // Look at releaseDetails public properties to get version information, release notes text or release notes URL
    string versionName = releaseDetails.ShortVersion;
    string versionCodeOrBuildNumber = releaseDetails.Version;
    string releaseNotes = releaseDetails.ReleaseNotes;
    Uri releaseNotesUrl = releaseDetails.ReleaseNotesUrl;

    // (Do something with the values if you want)

    // On mandatory update, user cannot postpone
    if (releaseDetails.MandatoryUpdate)
    {
        // Force user to update (you should probably show some custom UI here)
        Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.Update);
    }
    else
    {
        // Allow user to update or postpone (you should probably show some custom UI here)
        // "GetUserUpdateAction()" is not part of the SDK; it just represents a way of getting user response.
        // This blocks the thread while awaiting the user's response! This example should not be used literally
        UpdateAction updateAction = GetUserUpdateAction();
        Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(updateAction);
    }
    // Return true if you are using your own UI to get user response, false otherwise
    return true;
}
```

Implementation notes for Android:

As shown in the example, you have to call either `Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.UPDATE);` or `Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.POSTPONE);` if your callback returns `true`.

If you don't call `NotifyUpdateAction`, the callback will repeat on every activity change.

The callback can be called again with the same release if the activity changes before the user action is notified to the SDK.

This behavior is needed to cover the following scenarios:

* Your application is sent to the background (like pressing **HOME**) then resumed in a different activity.
* Your activity is covered by another one without leaving the application (like clicking on some notifications).
* Similar scenarios to the above.

In that case, the activity hosting the dialog might be replaced without user interaction. So the SDK calls the listener again so that you can restore the custom dialog.

## Enable or disable App Center Distribute at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Distribute at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK won't provide any in-app update functionality but you can still use the Distribute service in the App Center portal.

To disable the Distribute service, use the following code:

```csharp
Distribute.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable App Center Distribute again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
Distribute.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

You don't need to await this call to make other API calls (such as `IsEnabledAsync`) consistent.

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

## Check if App Center Distribute is enabled

You can also check if App Center Distribute is enabled:

```csharp
Distribute.IsEnabledAsync();
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

## How in-app updates work

The in-app updates feature works as follows:

1. This feature will ONLY work with RELEASE builds that are distributed using the **App Center Distribute** service.
2. Once you integrate the SDK, build a release version of your app, and upload it to App Center. Users in the distribution group are notified about the new release via email.
3. When each user opens the link in their email, the application will be installed on their device. It's important that they use the email link to install - we don't support side-loading.
4. Once the app is installed, and opened for the first time after adding the App Center Distribute SDK, a browser will open to enable in-app updates. This is a ONE TIME step that will not occur on future releases of your app.
5. Once the above step is successful, they should navigate back to the app.
6. A new release of the app shows the in-app update dialog asking users to update your application if it has
    * iOS:
        * a higher value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` or
        * an equal value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` but a higher value of `CFBundleVersion`.
    * Android:
        * a higher value of `versionCode` or
        * an equal value of `versionCode` but a higher value of `versionName`.

> [!TIP]
> If you upload the same .apk/.ipa a second time, the dialog will NOT appear as the binaries are identical. On iOS, if you upload a new build with the same version properties, it will show the update dialog. The reason for this is that it is a different binary. On Android, binaries are considered the same if both version properties are the same.

## How do I test in-app updates?

You must upload release builds (that use the Distribute module of the App Center SDK) to the App Center Portal to test in-app updates, increasing version numbers every time.

1. Create your app in the App Center Portal if you haven't done that already.
2. Create a new distribution group and give it a name.
3. Add yourself (or all people who you want to include on your test of the in-app update feature). Use a new or throw-away email address for this step, one not already used with this app. This will ensure that you have an experience that's close to the experience of your real testers.
4. Create a new build of your app that includes **App Center Distribute** and contains the setup logic as described below.
5. Click on the **Distribute new release** button in the portal and upload your build of the app.
6. Once the upload has finished, click **Next** and select the **Distribution group** that you previously created as the **Destination** of that app distribution.
7. Review the Distribution and distribute the build to your in-app testing group.
8. People in that group will receive an invite to be testers of the app. Once they need to accept the invite, they can download the app from the App Center Portal from their mobile device. Once they have in-app updates installed, you're ready to test in-app updates.
9. Bump the version of your app (`CFBundleShortVersionString ` or `CFBundleVersion ` for iOS, `versionCode` for Android).
10. Build the release version of your app and upload a new build just like you did in the previous step. Distribute to the **Distribution Group** you created earlier. Members of the Distribution Group will be prompted for a new version the next time the app enters the foreground.

> [!TIP]
> Please have a look at the information on how to [utilize App Center Distribute](~/distribution/index.md) for more detailed information about **Distribution Groups** etc.
While it is possible to use App Center Distribute to distribute a new version of your app without adding any code, adding App Center Distribute to your app's code will result in a more seamless experience for your testers and users as they get the in-app update experience.

Commit message:

Document 'Guided Acces Mode' for Distribute (#1255)
* Document 'Guided Acces Mode' for Distribute

* update the ms.data value

docs/sdk/distribute/unity.md, after:

---
title: App Center Distribute for Unity
description: Using in-app updates in App Center Distribute
keywords: sdk, distribute
author: jwhitedev
ms.author: jawh
ms.date: 05/14/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: fc504b67-f691-41be-8914-22d32a95cce7
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: unity
---

# App Center Distribute – In-app updates

> [!div  class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [Unity](unity.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

App Center Distribution enables your users/testers to install new versions of an app once you distribute it via App Center. Once enabled, the SDK presents an update dialog to users to either download or postpone installation of the latest update. Once they choose to update, the SDK will start to update your application.

> [!NOTE]
> There are a few things to consider when using in-app updates:
> 1. If you have released your app in the App Store or Google Play, in-app updates will be disabled and no longer work.
> 2. If you are running automated UI tests, enabled in-app updates will block your automated UI tests as they will try to authenticate against the App Center backend. We recommend disabling in-app updates for your UI tests.

## Add in-app updates to your app

### Add the App Center Distribute module

The App Center SDK is designed with a modular approach – a developer only needs to integrate the modules of the services that they're interested in.

Follow the [Unity getting started](~/sdk/getting-started/unity.md) docs if you haven't set up and started the SDK in your application, yet. Make sure to import the App Center Distribute package. Its name should be in the format AppCenterDistribute-v{version}.unitypackage

## Customize or localize the in-app update dialog

### 1. Customize or localize text

You can provide your own resource strings if you'd want to localize the text displayed in the update dialog. Look at the string files for iOS [in this iOS resource file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/blob/master/AppCenterDistribute/AppCenterDistribute/Resources/en.lproj/AppCenterDistribute.strings) and for Android [in this Android resource file](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android/blob/master/sdk/appcenter-distribute/src/main/res/values/appcenter_distribute.xml). Use the same string name/key and specify the localized value to be reflected in the dialog in your own app resource files.

### 2. Customize the update dialog

You can customize the default update dialog's appearance by implementing the `ReleaseAvailable` callback.

>[!WARNING]
>You need to register the callback in the `Awake` method of a `MonoBehaviour` in the first scene your application loads to avoid missing any release callback invocations.

```csharp
// In this example, OnReleaseAvailable is a method name in same class
Distribute.ReleaseAvailable = OnReleaseAvailable;
```

Here is a callback implementation that replaces the SDK dialog with custom logic:

```csharp
bool OnReleaseAvailable(ReleaseDetails releaseDetails)
{
    // Look at releaseDetails public properties to get version information, release notes text or release notes URL
    string versionName = releaseDetails.ShortVersion;
    string versionCodeOrBuildNumber = releaseDetails.Version;
    string releaseNotes = releaseDetails.ReleaseNotes;
    Uri releaseNotesUrl = releaseDetails.ReleaseNotesUrl;

    // (Do something with the values if you want)

    // On mandatory update, user cannot postpone
    if (releaseDetails.MandatoryUpdate)
    {
        // Force user to update (you should probably show some custom UI here)
        Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.Update);
    }
    else
    {
        // Allow user to update or postpone (you should probably show some custom UI here)
        // "GetUserUpdateAction()" is not part of the SDK; it just represents a way of getting user response.
        // This blocks the thread while awaiting the user's response! This example should not be used literally
        UpdateAction updateAction = GetUserUpdateAction();
        Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(updateAction);
    }
    // Return true if you are using your own UI to get user response, false otherwise
    return true;
}
```

Implementation notes for Android:

As shown in the example, you have to call either `Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.UPDATE);` or `Distribute.NotifyUpdateAction(UpdateAction.POSTPONE);` if your callback returns `true`.

If you don't call `NotifyUpdateAction`, the callback will repeat on every activity change.

The callback can be called again with the same release if the activity changes before the user action is notified to the SDK.

This behavior is needed to cover the following scenarios:

* Your application is sent to the background (like pressing **HOME**) then resumed in a different activity.
* Your activity is covered by another one without leaving the application (like clicking on some notifications).
* Similar scenarios to the above.

In that case, the activity hosting the dialog might be replaced without user interaction. So the SDK calls the listener again so that you can restore the custom dialog.

## Enable or disable App Center Distribute at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Distribute at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK won't provide any in-app update functionality but you can still use the Distribute service in the App Center portal.

To disable the Distribute service, use the following code:

```csharp
Distribute.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable App Center Distribute again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
Distribute.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

You don't need to await this call to make other API calls (such as `IsEnabledAsync`) consistent.

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

## Check if App Center Distribute is enabled

You can also check if App Center Distribute is enabled:

```csharp
Distribute.IsEnabledAsync();
```

[!include[](../unity-see-async.md)]

## How in-app updates work

The in-app updates feature works as follows:

1. This feature will ONLY work with RELEASE builds that are distributed using the **App Center Distribute** service. It won't work if the iOS Guided Access feature is turned on.
2. Once you integrate the SDK, build a release version of your app, and upload it to App Center. Users in the distribution group are notified about the new release via email.
3. When each user opens the link in their email, the application will be installed on their device. It's important that they use the email link to install - we don't support side-loading.
4. Once the app is installed, and opened for the first time after adding the App Center Distribute SDK, a browser will open to enable in-app updates. This is a ONE TIME step that will not occur on future releases of your app.
5. Once the above step is successful, they should navigate back to the app.
6. A new release of the app shows the in-app update dialog asking users to update your application if it has
    * iOS:
        * a higher value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` or
        * an equal value of `CFBundleShortVersionString` but a higher value of `CFBundleVersion`.
    * Android:
        * a higher value of `versionCode` or
        * an equal value of `versionCode` but a higher value of `versionName`.

> [!TIP]
> If you upload the same .apk/.ipa a second time, the dialog will NOT appear as the binaries are identical. On iOS, if you upload a new build with the same version properties, it will show the update dialog. The reason for this is that it is a different binary. On Android, binaries are considered the same if both version properties are the same.

## How do I test in-app updates?

You must upload release builds (that use the Distribute module of the App Center SDK) to the App Center Portal to test in-app updates, increasing version numbers every time.

1. Create your app in the App Center Portal if you haven't done that already.
2. Create a new distribution group and give it a name.
3. Add yourself (or all people who you want to include on your test of the in-app update feature). Use a new or throw-away email address for this step, one not already used with this app. This will ensure that you have an experience that's close to the experience of your real testers.
4. Create a new build of your app that includes **App Center Distribute** and contains the setup logic as described below.
5. Click on the **Distribute new release** button in the portal and upload your build of the app.
6. Once the upload has finished, click **Next** and select the **Distribution group** that you previously created as the **Destination** of that app distribution.
7. Review the Distribution and distribute the build to your in-app testing group.
8. People in that group will receive an invite to be testers of the app. Once they need to accept the invite, they can download the app from the App Center Portal from their mobile device. Once they have in-app updates installed, you're ready to test in-app updates.
9. Bump the version of your app (`CFBundleShortVersionString ` or `CFBundleVersion ` for iOS, `versionCode` for Android).
10. Build the release version of your app and upload a new build just like you did in the previous step. Distribute to the **Distribution Group** you created earlier. Members of the Distribution Group will be prompted for a new version the next time the app enters the foreground.

> [!TIP]
> Please have a look at the information on how to [utilize App Center Distribute](~/distribution/index.md) for more detailed information about **Distribution Groups** etc.
While it is possible to use App Center Distribute to distribute a new version of your app without adding any code, adding App Center Distribute to your app's code will result in a more seamless experience for your testers and users as they get the in-app update experience.
