docs/sdk/crashes/apple-common-methods-2.md, before:

### Get information about the sending status for a crash log

At times, you would like to know the status of your app crash. A common use case is that you might want to show UI that tells the users that your app is submitting a crash report, or, in case your app is crashing very quickly after the launch, you want to adjust the behavior of the app to make sure the crash logs can be submitted. The `MSCrashesDelegate`-protocol defines three different callbacks that you can use in your app to be notified of what is going on:

#### The following callback will be invoked before the SDK sends a crash log

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes willSendErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  // Your code, e.g. to present a custom UI.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, willSend errorReport: MSErrorReport!) {
  // Your code, e.g. to present a custom UI.
}
```

#### The following callback will be invoked after the SDK sent a crash log successfully

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes didSucceedSendingErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  // Your code, e.g. to hide the custom UI.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, didSucceedSending errorReport: MSErrorReport!) {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```

#### The following callback will be invoked if the SDK failed to send a crash log

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes didFailSendingErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport withError:(NSError *)error {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, didFailSending errorReport: MSErrorReport!, withError error: Error!) {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```

### Add attachments to a crash report

You can add **one binary** and **one text** attachment to a crash report. The SDK will send it along with the crash so that you can see it in App Center portal. The following callback will be invoked right before sending the stored crash from previous application launches, but not when the crash happens. Here is an example of how to attach text and an image to a crash:

```objc
- (NSArray<MSErrorAttachmentLog *> *)attachmentsWithCrashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes
                                             forErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  MSErrorAttachmentLog *attachment1 = [MSErrorAttachmentLog attachmentWithText:@"Hello world!" filename:@"hello.txt"];
  MSErrorAttachmentLog *attachment2 = [MSErrorAttachmentLog attachmentWithBinary:[@"Fake image" dataUsingEncoding:NSUTF8StringEncoding] filename:@"fake_image.jpeg" contentType:@"image/jpeg"];
  return @[ attachment1, attachment2 ];
}
```
```swift
func attachments(with crashes: MSCrashes, for errorReport: MSErrorReport) -> [MSErrorAttachmentLog] {
  let attachment1 = MSErrorAttachmentLog.attachment(withText: "Hello world!", filename: "hello.txt")
  let attachment2 = MSErrorAttachmentLog.attachment(withBinary: "Fake image".data(using: String.Encoding.utf8), filename: nil, contentType: "image/jpeg")
  return [attachment1!, attachment2!]
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> The size limit is currently 7 MB. Attempting to send a larger attachment will trigger an error.

## Disabling Mach exception handling

By default, App Center Crashes uses the Mach exception handler to catch fatal signals, e.g. stack overflows, via a Mach exception server.

The `disableMachExceptionHandler`-method provides an option to disable catching fatal signals via a Mach exception server. If you want to disable the Mach exception handler, you should call this method *BEFORE* starting the SDK. Your typical setup code would look like this:

```objc
[MSCrashes disableMachExceptionHandler];
[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class]]];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.disableMachExceptionHandler()
MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self])
```

## Enable or disable App Center Crashes at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Crashes at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not do any crash reporting for the app.

```objc
[MSCrashes setEnabled:NO];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Crashes again, use the same API but pass `YES`/`true` as a parameter.

```objc
[MSCrashes setEnabled:YES];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.setEnabled(true)
```

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

## Check if App Center Crashes is enabled

You can also check if App Center Crashes is enabled or not:

```objc
BOOL enabled = [MSCrashes isEnabled];
```
```swift
var enabled = MSCrashes.isEnabled()
```

Commit message:

Add support for WPF and WinForms in the SDK (#1346)
* WIP for windows SDK crash docs

* WIP for windows crash docs

* Fix links

* Update some dates

* WIP

* Update some dates

* Fix windows instructions

* Add .net framework minimum version

* Add other APIs

* Fixes

* Update docs/sdk/other-apis/wpf-winforms.md

* changed analytics/uwp to analytics/windows

* added snippet for winforms/wpf country code

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Anna Kocheshkova <v-annkoc@microsoft.com>

* fixed method return type

* Restore UWP page and document wpf crahes separately

* rollback diagnostics page

* Rollback diagnostics change to avoid conflicts

* Remove UWP limitations

* Fix link

* Uwp changes

* UWP will not be broken on official, but will in preview

* Add -preview for nuget for WPF

* Add analytics to WPF getting started

* Include link to analytics page from getting started

* analytics will be supported in WPF

* Fix selector on crash uwp

* Feedbacks

* Added documentation for wpf & winforms callbacks (#1358)

* Added documentation for wpf & winforms callbacks

* Review changes

* Add handled errors documentation for wpf (#1365)

* Add handled errors documentation for wpf

* Update wpf-winforms.md

* Shorten paragraph about handled errors and modify for xamarin

* Fix warnings

* Fix SDK version

docs/sdk/crashes/apple-common-methods-2.md, after:

---
title: Shared docs for Apple Crashes SDK
description:  Shared docs for Apple Crashes SDK
keywords: sdk, crash
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 07/22/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 1c1391e4-0c39-4141-893e-766ad22266d7
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: apple
dev_langs:  
 - swift
 - objc
---

### Get information about the sending status for a crash log

At times, you would like to know the status of your app crash. A common use case is that you might want to show UI that tells the users that your app is submitting a crash report, or, in case your app is crashing very quickly after the launch, you want to adjust the behavior of the app to make sure the crash logs can be submitted. The `MSCrashesDelegate`-protocol defines three different callbacks that you can use in your app to be notified of what is going on:

#### The following callback will be invoked before the SDK sends a crash log

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes willSendErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  // Your code, e.g. to present a custom UI.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, willSend errorReport: MSErrorReport!) {
  // Your code, e.g. to present a custom UI.
}
```

#### The following callback will be invoked after the SDK sent a crash log successfully

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes didSucceedSendingErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  // Your code, e.g. to hide the custom UI.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, didSucceedSending errorReport: MSErrorReport!) {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```

#### The following callback will be invoked if the SDK failed to send a crash log

```objc
- (void)crashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes didFailSendingErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport withError:(NSError *)error {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```
```swift
func crashes(_ crashes: MSCrashes!, didFailSending errorReport: MSErrorReport!, withError error: Error!) {
  // Your code goes here.
}
```

### Add attachments to a crash report

You can add **one binary** and **one text** attachment to a crash report. The SDK will send it along with the crash so that you can see it in App Center portal. The following callback will be invoked right before sending the stored crash from previous application launches. It will not be invoked when the crash happens. Here is an example of how to attach text and an image to a crash:

```objc
- (NSArray<MSErrorAttachmentLog *> *)attachmentsWithCrashes:(MSCrashes *)crashes
                                             forErrorReport:(MSErrorReport *)errorReport {
  MSErrorAttachmentLog *attachment1 = [MSErrorAttachmentLog attachmentWithText:@"Hello world!" filename:@"hello.txt"];
  MSErrorAttachmentLog *attachment2 = [MSErrorAttachmentLog attachmentWithBinary:[@"Fake image" dataUsingEncoding:NSUTF8StringEncoding] filename:@"fake_image.jpeg" contentType:@"image/jpeg"];
  return @[ attachment1, attachment2 ];
}
```
```swift
func attachments(with crashes: MSCrashes, for errorReport: MSErrorReport) -> [MSErrorAttachmentLog] {
  let attachment1 = MSErrorAttachmentLog.attachment(withText: "Hello world!", filename: "hello.txt")
  let attachment2 = MSErrorAttachmentLog.attachment(withBinary: "Fake image".data(using: String.Encoding.utf8), filename: nil, contentType: "image/jpeg")
  return [attachment1!, attachment2!]
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> The size limit is currently 7 MB. Attempting to send a larger attachment will trigger an error.

## Disabling Mach exception handling

By default, App Center Crashes uses the Mach exception handler to catch fatal signals, e.g. stack overflows, via a Mach exception server.

The `disableMachExceptionHandler`-method provides an option to disable catching fatal signals via a Mach exception server. If you want to disable the Mach exception handler, you should call this method *BEFORE* starting the SDK. Your typical setup code would look like this:

```objc
[MSCrashes disableMachExceptionHandler];
[MSAppCenter start:@"{Your App Secret}" withServices:@[[MSAnalytics class], [MSCrashes class]]];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.disableMachExceptionHandler()
MSAppCenter.start("{Your App Secret}", withServices: [MSAnalytics.self, MSCrashes.self])
```

## Enable or disable App Center Crashes at runtime

You can enable and disable App Center Crashes at runtime. If you disable it, the SDK will not do any crash reporting for the app.

```objc
[MSCrashes setEnabled:NO];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.setEnabled(false)
```

To enable App Center Crashes again, use the same API but pass `YES`/`true` as a parameter.

```objc
[MSCrashes setEnabled:YES];
```
```swift
MSCrashes.setEnabled(true)
```

The state is persisted in the device's storage across application launches.

## Check if App Center Crashes is enabled

You can also check if App Center Crashes is enabled or not:

```objc
BOOL enabled = [MSCrashes isEnabled];
```
```swift
var enabled = MSCrashes.isEnabled()
```
