docs/test-cloud/starting-a-test-run.md, before:

---
title: Starting a Test Run
description: How to start a test run in App Center Test
keywords: test cloud
author: glennwester
ms.author: glwest
ms.date: 08/08/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: fccaea20-b7ca-45d2-b111-46c23ff1832d
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: test
---

# Starting a Test Run

This section provides instructions for initiating a test run with test suites that have been prepared for upload. To learn how to prepare a test suite for upload to App Center, see [preparing tests for upload](~/test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md).

Initiating a test run in App Center Test requires the [App Center CLI tool](~/cli/index.md).

With the App Center CLI tool installed and upload preparation complete, initiating a test run is very straightforward as the UI will guide you through the necessary steps. Begin by navigating to the Test section within the desired app. Clicking the **new test run** button will launch a dialog which will lead you through the 3 steps of preparing a test run.

## Device selection
Select the devices against which this test run should execute. This collection of devices can optionally be saved as a set for future use. To save the set, follow the on-screen prompts.

## Test run configuration
Select the test framework, set the device locale, and select a test series. Device locale will determine the system-level device settings, such as language. For more on test series, see [this section](~/test-cloud/core-concepts.md)

## The generated command
Each selection from the previous steps will be used to generate a command which is used with the App Center CLI to initiate a test run. For example, a command generated for an Android app with Espresso tests might look like:

```
appcenter test run espresso --app "<app-center-username/app-name>" --devices "app-center-username/named-device-set" --app-path pathToFile.apk  --test-series "master" --locale "en_US" --build-dir pathToEspressoBuildFolder
```

Commit message:

Jawh/xtc upload fixes (#763)
* Updating docs to better point point to how to generate an upload test run.

* update to correct syntax

* Correcting Spelling and grammar for science

* more formatting!

* Update appium.md

docs/test-cloud/starting-a-test-run.md, after:

---
title: Starting a Test Run
description: How to start a test run in App Center Test
keywords: test cloud
author: glennwester
ms.author: glwest
ms.date: 08/08/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: fccaea20-b7ca-45d2-b111-46c23ff1832d
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: test
---

# Starting a Test Run

This section provides instructions for initiating a test run with test suites that have been prepared for upload. To learn how to prepare a test suite for upload to App Center, see [preparing tests for upload](~/test-cloud/preparing-for-upload/index.md).

Initiating a test run in App Center Test requires the [App Center CLI tool](~/cli/index.md).

1. Log in at [https://appcenter.ms](https://appcenter.ms)
2. If you have not created your app, click *Add new* -> **Add new app** and fill out the relevant information. More info at [creating and managing apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/appcenter/dashboard/creating-and-managing-apps).
3. On the left-hand sidebar select the Test icon, the circle with a checkmark inside of it.
4. Click **New test run** to run the dialog to create a test upload command
5. On the next screen, select the devices against which this test run should execute. This collection of devices can optionally be saved as a set for future use.
6. Select the test framework, set the device locale, and select a test series. Device locale will determine the system-level device settings, such as language. For more on test series, see [this section](~/test-cloud/core-concepts.md)
7. Each selection from the previous steps will be used to generate a command which is used with the App Center CLI to initiate a test run. For example, a command generated for an Android app with Espresso tests might look like:

```
appcenter test run espresso --app "<app-center-username/APP NAME>" --devices "app-center-username/<DEVICE SET NAME>" --app-path <PATH TO APK>  --test-series <TEST SERIES> --locale "en_US" --build-dir <PATH TO TEST DIRECTORY>
```

The command parameters include the following pieces of information specific to the newly created test run:

* **APP NAME** - The name of the app in App Center.
* **PATH TO APK / IPA** - The path to the app being tested.
* **DEVICE SET NAME / ID** - Represents the *device set* where the test will execute. A device set is a collection of devices and operating systems.
* **TEST SERIES** - A label used to group a series of related test runs together. By default, the value of the test series is *master*.
* **PATH TO TEST DIRECTORY** - The path to the directory that contains your test automation.
With the App Center CLI tool installed and upload preparation complete, initiating a test run is very straightforward as the UI will guide you through the necessary steps. Begin by navigating to the Test section within the desired app. Clicking the **new test run** button will launch a dialog which will lead you through the 3 steps of preparing a test run.

8. Copy this generated command and execute it using the `appcenter` command line tool. Additionally, you may want to save the command to use in future test runs.
