vs-mobile-center-docs/samples/iOS/crashes.md, before:

---
# required metadata

title: Crashes | Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial on viewing crashes from a sample iOS app in Mobile Center
keywords: mobile-center
authors: sabrinaj206
ms.author: t-sajia
ms.date: 06/28/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom:
ms.prod: .net-core
ms.assetid: c1a3c385-3f62-4a6f-8cd8-661bdb4db795

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
#ms.devlang: dotnet
#ms.reviewer: [ALIAS]

---

# Crashes
In this tutorial, you will learn to view crashes from a sample iOS app in Mobile Center.

If you have not already, first follow the [getting started tutorial](/getting-started.md) to set up the sample app.

## Replace the App Secret
In order for the sample app to send information to Mobile Center, the app secret must be changed in XCode.
1. Open the **.xcworkspace**.
2. In **AppDelegate.swift**, edit the **didFinishLaunchingWithOptions** delegate method and replace App Secret.


## Crashing the sample app
1. ??
2. Tap the **crash** button to crash the app.
3. **Reopen the app.** This sends the crash report to the Mobile Center backend.


## View the crashes in Mobile Center

Commit message:

pushing new TOC to see in review page

vs-mobile-center-docs/samples/iOS/crashes.md, after:

---
# required metadata

title: Crashes | Sample App Tutorials
description: Tutorial on viewing crashes from a sample iOS app in Mobile Center
keywords: mobile-center
authors: sabrinaj206
ms.author: t-sajia
ms.date: 06/28/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom:
ms.prod: .net-core
ms.assetid: c1a3c385-3f62-4a6f-8cd8-661bdb4db795

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
#ms.devlang: dotnet
#ms.reviewer: [ALIAS]

---

# Crashes
In this tutorial, you will learn to view crashes from a sample iOS app in Mobile Center.

If you have not already, first follow the [getting started tutorial](/getting-started.md) to set up the sample app.

## Obtain and Replace your App Secret
In order for the sample app to send information to Mobile Center, the app secret must be changed in XCode.

1. Navigate to the **Settings** page in Mobile Center.
2. Copy the **App Secret** at the top to the clipboard.
3. Open the **.xcworkspace**.
4. In **AppDelegate.swift**, edit the **didFinishLaunchingWithOptions** delegate method and paste your App Secret.

## Crashing the sample app
1. ??
2. Tap the **crash** button to crash the app.
3. **Reopen the app.** This sends the crash report to the Mobile Center backend.

## View the crashes in Mobile Center
1.
