vs-mobile-center-docs/dashboard/bugtracker/index.md, before:

---
title: App Center bug tracker Documentation
description: how to integrate App Center with bug trackers like Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) and GitHub
keywords: app center, appcenter, visual studio app center, visual studio appcenter, bug tracker, bugtracker, documentation, hockeyapp, VSTS, github
author: amchew
ms.author: amchew
ms.date: 09/15/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.assetid: 97b6f745-736f-4abc-a85b-8834da2b51d4
---

# App Center bug tracker integration
## Overview

App Center has bug tracker integration for the crashes service. Users can be quickly informed about critical App Center events within the tools that you use regularly in your day to day flow for a seamless experience. App Center supports bug trackers like Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) and GitHub. Users need to have manage or developer permissions to be able to create and configure the bug tracker.

## Getting Started

1. Navigate to https://appcenter.ms/apps, and select the specific app you would like for bug tracker integration.

1. In your app, select **Settings**, **Services**, and click the **edit** button.

1. <a name="step3"/>Select which bug tracker (VSTS or GitHub) to integrate with:

	1. For VSTS:

		1. Login with your VSTS credentials and click **Accept** when prompted on app authorization.
		1. Select which VSTS projects to integrate the bug tracker with and click **Next**.
		1. Under **Add Bug Tracker**, fill in fields for **Number of crashes**, **Area** and **Default Payload**, and click **add**:
			- Number of crashses is a threshold you can set for the minimum number of crashes to happen in a crash group before a ticket is created in VSTS.
			- Default payload is an optional field to fill in for use in work items. For example, `{"System.IterationPath": "Iteration 1", "System.AssignedTo": "Fabrikam"}`. Please see here for all fields with [work item types API](https://docs.microsoft.com/vsts/integrate/#Getaworkitemtype).

	  			![How to add a bug tracker for VSTS](media/addBugTrackerVSTS.gif)



	1. For GitHub:

		1. Login with your GitHub credentials and click **Authorize MobileCenter**.
		1. Select which GitHub repository to integrate the bug tracker with and click **Next**.
		1. Under **Add Bug Tracker**, fill in fields for **Number of crashes** and click **Add**:
			- Number of crashses is a threshold you can set for the minimum number of crashes to happen in a crash group before an issue is created in GitHub.

			![How to add a bug tracker for GitHub](media/addBugTrackerGitHub.gif)

1. Done! Your bug tracker is now configured. When a new crash group is created in App Center, it will trigger the creation of a bug in the configured bug tracker.

1. Toggle to the extreme right hand of the bug tracker to **Configure** or **Disconnect** it.

	- **Configure** enables you to change the responses to **Auto create ticket**, **Area**, and **Default payload**.
	- **Disconnect** unlinks all the bugs from your crash group.

1. Bug tracker integration is done at the app level, and only one bug tracker can be configured per app. To change bug trackers:

	1. Go to the **Services** page.
	1. Toggle to the extreme right hand of the bug tracker to **Disconnect** it.
	1. Repeat [step 3](#step3).

Commit message:

Added documentation of Jira bug tracker (#422)
* Added documentation of Jira bug tracker

- Added documentation of new feature Jira bug tracker
- Renamed some remnants from the "Mobile Center" era
- Fixed grammar errors

* Corrected grammatical errors

vs-mobile-center-docs/dashboard/bugtracker/index.md, after:

---
title: App Center bug tracker Documentation
description: how to integrate App Center with bug trackers like Jira, Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) and GitHub
keywords: app center, appcenter, visual studio app center, visual studio appcenter, bug tracker, bugtracker, documentation, hockeyapp, VSTS, github
author: amchew
ms.author: amchew
ms.date: 09/15/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.assetid: 97b6f745-736f-4abc-a85b-8834da2b51d4
---

# App Center bug tracker integration
## Overview

App Center has bug tracker integration for the crashes service. Users can be quickly informed about critical App Center events within the tools that you use regularly in your day to day flow for a seamless experience. App Center supports bug trackers like Jira, Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) and GitHub. Users need to have manager or developer permissions to be able to create and configure the bug tracker.

## Getting Started

1. Navigate to https://appcenter.ms/apps, and select the specific app you would like for bug tracker integration.

1. In your app, select **Settings**, **Services**, and click the **edit** button.

1. <a name="step3"/>Select which bug tracker (Jira, VSTS or GitHub) to integrate with:

    1. For Jira:

        1. Login with your Jira credentials (username, password and base URL) and click **Add**. Please see here on [how to find your base URL](https://confluence.atlassian.com/adminjiraserver071/configuring-the-base-url-802593107.html).
        1. Select which Jira projects to integrate the bug tracker with and click **Next**.
        1. Under **Add bug tracker**, fill in the fields for **Number of crashes** and click **Add**:
            - Number of crashses is a threshold you can set for the minimum number of crashes to happen in a crash group before a ticket is created in Jira.

                ![How to add a bug tracker for Jira](media/addBugTrackerJira.gif)
                
    1. For VSTS:

        1. Login with your VSTS credentials and click **Accept** when prompted on app authorization.
        1. Select which VSTS projects to integrate the bug tracker with and click **Next**.
        1. Under **Add bug tracker**, fill in the fields for **Number of crashes**, **Area** and **Default Payload**, and click **Add**:
            - Number of crashes is a threshold you can set for the minimum number of crashes to happen in a crash group before a ticket is created in VSTS.
            - Default payload is an optional field to fill in for use in work items. For example, `{"System.IterationPath": "Iteration 1", "System.AssignedTo": "Fabrikam"}`. Please see here for all fields with [work item types API](https://docs.microsoft.com/vsts/integrate/#Getaworkitemtype).

                ![How to add a bug tracker for VSTS](media/addBugTrackerVSTS.gif)



    1. For GitHub:

        1. Login with your GitHub credentials and click **Authorize App Center**.
        1. Select which GitHub repository to integrate the bug tracker with and click **Next**.
        1. Under **Add bug tracker**, fill in the fields for **Number of crashes** and click **Add**:
            - Number of crashses is a threshold you can set for the minimum number of crashes to happen in a crash group before an issue is created in GitHub.

            ![How to add a bug tracker for GitHub](media/addBugTrackerGitHub.gif)

1. Done! Your bug tracker is now configured. When a new crash group is created in App Center, it will trigger the creation of a bug in the configured bug tracker.

1. Toggle to the extreme right hand of the bug tracker to **Configure** or **Disconnect** it.

    - **Configure** enables you to change the responses to **Auto create ticket**, **Number of crashes**, **Area**, and **Default payload**.
    - **Disconnect** unlinks all the bugs from your crash group.

1. Bug tracker integration is done at the app level, and only one bug tracker can be configured per app. To change bug trackers:

    1. Go to the **Services** page.
    1. Toggle to the extreme right hand of the bug tracker to **Disconnect** it.
    1. Repeat [step 3](#step3).
