docs/crashes/react-native.md, before:

---
title: App Center Crash Reporting for React Native
description: Reporting crashes from React Native apps in App Center
keywords: crash reporting
author: anlinde
ms.author: anlinde
ms.date: 08/21/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 2155290f-43e5-4f41-b45c-1658293313b8
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: crashes
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# React Native Crashes

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)

## Getting Started

1. Integrate the SDK as described in the [Getting Started with React Native](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) documentation.
2. Upload the symbols that are created with each build using the *Incoming* page under the app.
3. Add a test crash to the app's code by calling the `generateTestCrash` method of the crash reporting module as an action to a button.
4. Run the app without the debugger connected, crash it and restart it.
5. After a few minutes the crash report should be visible in the UI.

## Uploading symbols

1. Create a ZIP file with the dSYM package on your Mac and the JavaScript source map of your app. The source map should named "index.ios.map".

    The commands below will generate the source map for release builds:

        react-native bundle --entry-file index.ios.js --platform ios --dev false --reset-cache --bundle-output unused.jsbundle --sourcemap-output index.ios.map

    > The App Center Build service automatically generates a valid dSYM and source map .zip file, and uploads it to the Crashes service, meaning you can skip all these steps.

2. Open the *Incoming* page under *Crash Reporting* on App Center of the app.
3. Upload the zip file.
4. After the zip file is indexed by App Center new incoming crashes will be symbolicated.

## Troubleshooting

1. *How does App Center parse your .zip file?*

    App Center first looks for dsym directories at any level. Then it looks for a source map by the title of **index.ios.map**. If **index.ios.map** does not exist, it uses the first **.map** file that is found.

2. *Why are crash reports not visible after a few minutes?*

    Right now crash reports are only visible if they can be symbolicated. For that to happen the proper symbols (dSYM) need to be uploaded. There will be a UI available later that shows which symbols are missing and how to find them.

2. *What could be another reason for the crash report to not appear?*

    Make sure the app doesn't crash on startup, as the SDK wouldn't have time to send the crash report. This is a limitation for any 3rd party crash reporting service.

3. *The symbols are uploaded but the previous crash reports are not appearing.*

    As of now only new incoming crashes will be symbolicated. Processing pending crashes is on our roadmap.

Commit message:

Incoming page is now Symbols page under Crashes/Diagnostics service. (#555)
* Incoming page is now Symbols page under Crashes/Diagnostics service.

* Slight improvements for crashes docs.

* Fix commas.

docs/crashes/react-native.md, after:

---
title: App Center Crash Reporting for React Native
description: Reporting crashes from React Native apps in App Center
keywords: crash reporting
author: anlinde
ms.author: anlinde
ms.date: 08/21/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 2155290f-43e5-4f41-b45c-1658293313b8
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: crashes
ms.tgt_pltfrm: react-native
---

# React Native Crashes

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [macOS](macos.md)

## Getting Started

1. Integrate the SDK as described in the [Getting Started with React Native](~/sdk/getting-started/react-native.md) documentation.
2. Go to [App Center](https://appcenter.ms/apps) and select your app.
3. Navigate to the **Diagnostics** section from the left menu, then navigate to **Symbols** under this section.
4. Click **Upload symbols** in the top right corner and upload the symbols.
5. Add a test crash to the app's code by calling the `Crashes.generateTestCrash()` method of the crash reporting module as an action to a button.
6. Run the app without the debugger connected, crash it, and then restart it.
7. After a few minutes the crash report should be visible in the App Center portal.

## Uploading symbols

1. Create a ZIP file with the dSYM package on your Mac and the JavaScript source map of your app. The source map should named "index.ios.map".

    The commands below will generate the source map for release builds:

        react-native bundle --entry-file index.ios.js --platform ios --dev false --reset-cache --bundle-output unused.jsbundle --sourcemap-output index.ios.map

    > The App Center Build service automatically generates a valid dSYM and source map .zip file, and uploads it to the Crashes service, meaning you can skip all these steps.

2. Go to [App Center](https://appcenter.ms/apps) and select your app.
3. Navigate to the **Diagnostics** section from the left menu, then navigate to **Symbols** under this section.
4. Click **Upload symbols** in the top right corner and upload the zip file.
5. After the zip file is indexed by App Center new incoming crashes will be symbolicated.

## Troubleshooting

1. *How does App Center parse your .zip file?*

    App Center first looks for dsym directories at any level. Then it looks for a source map by the title of **index.ios.map**. If **index.ios.map** does not exist, it uses the first **.map** file that is found.

2. *Why are crash reports not visible after a few minutes?*

    Right now crash reports are only visible if they can be symbolicated. For that to happen the proper symbols (dSYM) need to be uploaded. There will be a UI available later that shows which symbols are missing and how to find them.

2. *What could be another reason for the crash report to not appear?*

    Make sure the app doesn't crash on startup, as the SDK wouldn't have time to send the crash report. This is a limitation for any 3rd party crash reporting service.

3. *The symbols are uploaded but the previous crash reports are not appearing.*

    As of now only new incoming crashes will be symbolicated. Processing pending crashes is on our roadmap.
