vs-mobile-center-docs/analytics/log-flow.md, before:

---
title: Understanding the App Center Log Flow Page
description: Help using the Log Flow Page on App Center
keywords: app center, analytics
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 01/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: be4ee0a0-cd06-486a-bef1-22b6ab5dc896
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics
---

# Log Flow Page

Log Flow will show you in real time what is being received by the backend.
The main goals are:
- Check the SDK is properly wired and our backend is receiving data, as you might do a microphone check: "Is this on?"
- Ensure the backend is receiving what the app is supposed to send

## General information

Log Flow will collect and display incoming data from the current day (in the UTC timezone). The data should appear within a few seconds after it is sent by the device. It will automatically refresh every 3 seconds, and will load up to 100 data points. If more than 100 data points were generated by the application between 2 refreshes, the UI will indicate the "break" with an icon. 

In order to populate the log flow page, you will need to:
1. Open the Log Flow page and wait a few seconds
2. Start sending logs from your device

No previous logs will show unless this workflow above was done earlier in the same day (in the UTC timezone). Also, this process will need to be done again after 10 minutes of the page not being in focus.

It is possible to view:
- Start of sessions
- The fact that a crash occured
- Events, including the event name and its properties

All data includes a subset of the _installation id_ which uniquely identifies devices and the time in local timezone at which the log was emited in the application.

## "Is this on?"
The main use case of Log Flow is to check that "the SDK integration works". Data will appear within seconds there, so it's the best way to check whether your 1-line integration worked after the first run.

When doing a 1-line integration, you should expect a "STARTSESSION" with the session Id, everytime the app is started.

## Checking the data received
The other use case is to check that the App Center backend receives exactly the events with the names and properties that are expected to send.

It is a good idea to check the SDK integration, and especially Events by going through all the features and actions that are instrumented, in order to check that App Center properly receives what is expected.

Commit message:

Changes in Analytics docs pre-GA (#355)
* add some document

* change more article

* addressed requested changes

vs-mobile-center-docs/analytics/log-flow.md, after:

---
title: Understanding the App Center Log Flow Page
description: Help using the Log Flow Page on App Center
keywords: app center, analytics
author: blparr
ms.author: blparr
ms.date: 01/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: be4ee0a0-cd06-486a-bef1-22b6ab5dc896
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: analytics
---

# Log Flow

Log Flow will show you what is being received by the backend in real time.
The main use cases for log flow are:
- Check if the SDK is properly integarted and if our backend is receiving data. Similar to when you do a microphone check: "Is this on?".
- Ensure that the backend is receiving what the app is supposed to send.

## General information

Log Flow will collect and display incoming data from the current day (in the UTC timezone). The data should appear within a few seconds after it is sent by the device with the Log Flow page open. It will automatically refresh every 3 seconds, and will load up to 100 data points. If more than 100 data points were generated by the application between 2 refreshes, the UI will indicate the "break" with an icon.

In order to populate the log flow page, you will need to:
1. Open the Log Flow page and wait a few seconds
2. Start sending logs from your device

No previous logs will show unless this workflow above was done earlier in the same day (in the UTC timezone). Also, this process will need to be done again after 10 minutes of the page not being in focus.

Log flow will show you the following information:
- Start of sessions
- The fact that a crash occurred
- Events, including the event name and its properties

All data includes a subset of the _installation id_ which uniquely identifies devices and the time in local timezone at which the log was emitted in the application.

## "Is this on?"
The main use case of Log Flow is to check that the SDK was properly integrated. Open the page, send some logs, and verify whether your 1-line integration worked after the first run. You should expect to see a "STARTSESSION" log with the session ID, everytime the app is started.

## Checking the data received
The other use case is to check that the App Center backend receives exactly what you send, such as event and event properties names and format.
