docs/build/xamarin/android/index.md, before:

---
title: Building Xamarin apps for Android
description: How to set up a build system for Xamarin.Android apps
keywords: android
author: siminapasat
ms.author: siminap
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 408956a2-8570-40c1-bc62-edc44cd9ec0c
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: xamarin-android
---

# Building Xamarin apps for Android

To start building your first Xamarin Android app, you must:

1. Connect to your repository service account (GitHub, Bitbucket, VSTS, Azure DevOps).
2. Select a repository and a branch where your app lives.
3. Choose the Android project you want to build.
4. Set up your first build.

> [!NOTE]
> For the app to run on a real device, you must sign the build the build with a valid KeyStore.

## 1. Linking your repository

If you haven't previously connected to your repository service account, you must do this first. Once your account is connected, select the repository where your Xamarin project is located. You must have admin and pull permissions to setup a build for a repository.

## 2. Selecting a branch

After selecting a repository, select the branch you want to build. By default, App Center lists all active branches.

## 3. Configuring Your Build

The Xamarin project must be configured before your first build.

### 3.1. Build triggers

By default, a new build is triggered every time a developer pushes to a configured branch. This is referred to as "Continuous Integration". If you prefer to trigger a new build manually, you can change this setting in the configuration pane.

### 3.2. Project and Configuration

The available projects in your repository will populate if they are located within the range of analysis. Select the correct project for your Android build and select the appropriate configuration.

> [!NOTE]
> For best performance, the analysis is currently limited to four directory levels including the root of your repository.

### 3.3. Mono version

App Center allows using different Mono environments bundled with the respective Xamarin.Android SDK for your builds. This way we maintain backward compatibility while also supporting the latest features. The default Mono version for a new branch configuration is the latest stable one. You may choose to use one of the previous Mono environments to build older versions of frameworks or libraries. 

When selecting a Mono version in the build configuration, the bundled Xamarin.Android SDK version displayed right next to it. For more information about Xamarin SDK version updates, please read the [Xamarin release blog](https://releases.xamarin.com/).

### 3.4. Increment version number

When enabled, the version code in the AndroidManifest.xml of your app automatically increments for each build. The change happens pre build and won't be committed to your repository.

### 3.5. Code signing

A successful build will produce an `.apk` file. To release the build to the Play Store, it must be signed with a valid Keystore and Alias. To sign the builds produced from a branch, enable code signing in the configuration pane, upload your Keystore, and provide the values needed in the configuration pane. You can read more [detailed code signing instructions](~/build/xamarin/android/code-signing.md).

### 3.6. Launch your successful build on a real device

Use your newly produced `.apk` file to test if your app starts on a real device. This will add approximately 10 more minutes to the total build time. There is more [specific test integration information](~/build/build-test-integration.md).

### 3.7. NuGet restore

If the `NuGet.config` file is checked-in into the repository and sitting next to the `.sln` file or at the root level of your repository, App Center restores your private NuGet feeds when they are added as shown in the example below. Credentials can be added safely by using [environment variables](~/build/custom/variables/index.md):

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
  <packageSources>
    <add key="nuget" value="https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json" />
    <add key="MyGet" value="https://www.myget.org/F/MyUsername/api/v2/index.json" />
    <add key="MyAuthNuget" value="https://nuget.example.com/v2/index.json" />
  </packageSources>
  <activePackageSource>
    <add key="All" value="(Aggregate source)" />
  </activePackageSource>
  <packageSourceCredentials>
    <MyAuthNuget>
      <add key="Username" value="$USER_VARIABLE" />
      <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="$PASSWORD_VARIABLE" />
    </MyAuthNuget>
  </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```

If you have complex configurations and need more information, please refer to [Configuring NuGet behavior](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior).

### 3.8. Distribute to a distribution group

You can configure each successful build from a branch to be distributed to a previously created distribution group. You can add a new distribution group from within the Distribute section. There is always a default distribution group called **Collaborators** that includes all the users who have access to the app.

Once you save the configuration, a new build will kick off automatically.

## 4. Build results

After a build triggers, the build will be in one of the following states:

* **queued** -  the build is in a queue waiting for resources to be freed up
* **building** - the build is running and performing the predefined tasks
* **succeeded** - the build is completed and it has succeeded
* **failed** - the build has completed but it has failed; you can troubleshoot what went wrong by downloading and inspecting the build log
* **canceled** - the build has been canceled by a user action or it has timed out

### 4.1. Build logs

For a completed build (succeeded or failed), download the logs to understand more about how the build went. App Center provides an archive with the following files:

```NA
|-- 1_build.txt (this is the general build log)
|-- build (this folder contains a separate log file for each build step)
    |-- <build-step-1>
    |-- <build-step-2>
    |--
    |-- <build-step-n> (e.g. n_Post Job Cleanup.txt)
```

The build step specific logs (located in the build/ directory of the archive) are helpful for troubleshooting and understanding in what step and why the build failed.

### 4.2. The app (.apk)

The `.apk` file is an Android application packaged file which stores the Android app. If the build has been correctly signed, the A`.apk` file can be installed on a real device and deployed to the Play Store. If the build has not been signed, the app can run on an emulator or be used for other purposes.

## Supported versions and requirements

App Center supports Portable Class Library (PCL) and [.NET Standard](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/net-standard) projects. Refer to [Cloud Build Machines](~/build/software.md) for versions of .NET Standard.

App Center does not support Components from the Xamarin Component Store and we advise using NuGet packages whenever they are available. If you are using a Component which cannot be replaced, please reach out to us: click on the blue chat icon in the bottom-right corner once you're logged in to App Center and share your feedback with us.

Commit message:

Docs for .aab support
- Add docs about toggle and repo analysis to native and RN android doc
- Add signing info to native and RN android doc
- Add limitation of not supporting .aab to Xamarin.Android doc

docs/build/xamarin/android/index.md, after:

---
title: Building Xamarin apps for Android
description: How to set up a build system for Xamarin.Android apps
keywords: android
author: nrajpurkar
ms.author: nirajpur
ms.date: 07/29/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 408956a2-8570-40c1-bc62-edc44cd9ec0c
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: build
ms.tgt_pltfrm: xamarin-android
---

# Building Xamarin apps for Android

To start building your first Xamarin Android app, you must:

1. Connect to your repository service account (GitHub, Bitbucket, VSTS, Azure DevOps).
2. Select a repository and a branch where your app lives.
3. Choose the Android project you want to build.
4. Set up your first build.

> [!NOTE]
> For the app to run on a real device, you must sign the build the build with a valid KeyStore.

## 1. Linking your repository

If you haven't previously connected to your repository service account, you must do this first. Once your account is connected, select the repository where your Xamarin project is located. You must have admin and pull permissions to setup a build for a repository.

## 2. Selecting a branch

After selecting a repository, select the branch you want to build. By default, App Center lists all active branches.

## 3. Configuring Your Build

The Xamarin project must be configured before your first build.

### 3.1. Build triggers

By default, a new build is triggered every time a developer pushes to a configured branch. This is referred to as "Continuous Integration". If you prefer to trigger a new build manually, you can change this setting in the configuration pane.

### 3.2. Project and Configuration

The available projects in your repository will populate if they are located within the range of analysis. Select the correct project for your Android build and select the appropriate configuration.

> [!NOTE]
> For best performance, the analysis is currently limited to four directory levels including the root of your repository.

### 3.3. Mono version

App Center allows using different Mono environments bundled with the respective Xamarin.Android SDK for your builds. This way we maintain backward compatibility while also supporting the latest features. The default Mono version for a new branch configuration is the latest stable one. You may choose to use one of the previous Mono environments to build older versions of frameworks or libraries. 

When selecting a Mono version in the build configuration, the bundled Xamarin.Android SDK version displayed right next to it. For more information about Xamarin SDK version updates, please read the [Xamarin release blog](https://releases.xamarin.com/).

### 3.4. Increment version number

When enabled, the version code in the AndroidManifest.xml of your app automatically increments for each build. The change happens pre build and won't be committed to your repository.

### 3.5. Code signing

A successful build will produce an `.apk` file. To release the build to the Play Store, it must be signed with a valid Keystore and Alias. To sign the builds produced from a branch, enable code signing in the configuration pane, upload your Keystore, and provide the values needed in the configuration pane. You can read more [detailed code signing instructions](~/build/xamarin/android/code-signing.md).

### 3.6. Launch your successful build on a real device

Use your newly produced `.apk` file to test if your app starts on a real device. This will add approximately 10 more minutes to the total build time. There is more [specific test integration information](~/build/build-test-integration.md).

### 3.7. NuGet restore

If the `NuGet.config` file is checked-in into the repository and sitting next to the `.sln` file or at the root level of your repository, App Center restores your private NuGet feeds when they are added as shown in the example below. Credentials can be added safely by using [environment variables](~/build/custom/variables/index.md):

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
  <packageSources>
    <add key="nuget" value="https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json" />
    <add key="MyGet" value="https://www.myget.org/F/MyUsername/api/v2/index.json" />
    <add key="MyAuthNuget" value="https://nuget.example.com/v2/index.json" />
  </packageSources>
  <activePackageSource>
    <add key="All" value="(Aggregate source)" />
  </activePackageSource>
  <packageSourceCredentials>
    <MyAuthNuget>
      <add key="Username" value="$USER_VARIABLE" />
      <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="$PASSWORD_VARIABLE" />
    </MyAuthNuget>
  </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```

If you have complex configurations and need more information, please refer to [Configuring NuGet behavior](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior).

### 3.8. Distribute to a distribution group

You can configure each successful build from a branch to be distributed to a previously created distribution group. You can add a new distribution group from within the Distribute section. There is always a default distribution group called **Collaborators** that includes all the users who have access to the app.

Once you save the configuration, a new build will kick off automatically.

> [!NOTE]
> Building an `.aab` is not currently supported for Xamarin.Android apps.
## 4. Build results

After a build triggers, the build will be in one of the following states:

* **queued** -  the build is in a queue waiting for resources to be freed up
* **building** - the build is running and performing the predefined tasks
* **succeeded** - the build is completed and it has succeeded
* **failed** - the build has completed but it has failed; you can troubleshoot what went wrong by downloading and inspecting the build log
* **canceled** - the build has been canceled by a user action or it has timed out

### 4.1. Build logs

For a completed build (succeeded or failed), download the logs to understand more about how the build went. App Center provides an archive with the following files:

```NA
|-- 1_build.txt (this is the general build log)
|-- build (this folder contains a separate log file for each build step)
    |-- <build-step-1>
    |-- <build-step-2>
    |--
    |-- <build-step-n> (e.g. n_Post Job Cleanup.txt)
```

The build step specific logs (located in the build/ directory of the archive) are helpful for troubleshooting and understanding in what step and why the build failed.

### 4.2. The app (.apk)

The `.apk` file is an Android application packaged file which stores the Android app. If the build has been correctly signed, the A`.apk` file can be installed on a real device and deployed to the Play Store. If the build has not been signed, the app can run on an emulator or be used for other purposes.

## Supported versions and requirements

App Center supports Portable Class Library (PCL) and [.NET Standard](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/net-standard) projects. Refer to [Cloud Build Machines](~/build/software.md) for versions of .NET Standard.

App Center does not support Components from the Xamarin Component Store and we advise using NuGet packages whenever they are available. If you are using a Component which cannot be replaced, please reach out to us: click on the blue chat icon in the bottom-right corner once you're logged in to App Center and share your feedback with us.
