docs/migration/hockeyapp/index.md, before:

---
title: "HockeyApp Migration"
description: Migrating from HockeyApp to App Center
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 04/11/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: A5AB2B92-0616-4F41-A0E7-43FD3C778059
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# HockeyApp Transition Plan

We're committed to migrating your HockeyApp account with zero hassle. That's why we have created a [transition plan](https://www.hockeyapp.net/mobile-center/transition/) that is transparent, easy-to-understand, and effortless for our users. This process is being rolled-out in two different phases:

## Your HockeyApp apps & data in App Center - Available Today

Transitioning should be low-risk for all HockeyApp users, that's why we've synchronized your existing apps into App Center. This allows you to login to App Center using your HockeyApp credentials and try out all the services App Center offers without affecting your HockeyApp workflow. Your apps are now two places at once with back-and-forward synchronicity. You can continue to use HockeyApp as you would normally. 

To get started, [sign-in](https://appcenter.ms/login?utm_medium=referral_link&utm_source=Hockey%20App) to App Center using your existing HockeyApp credentials.

### Accessing your HockeyApp apps

Once logged in, you'll see a list of all of your existing HockeyApp apps (alongside any existing App Center apps you have already created).

HockeyApp apps that are **iOS** or **Android**, and built using **Native**, **Xamarin**, or **React Native** technologies will be ready-to-use within App Center. We're busy working on expanding to other platforms. Keep an eye on our [Product Roadmap](~/general/roadmap.md) for updates on OS and platform expansion and improvements.

### How to use your apps inside App Center

* Extend your test suite using our brand new cloud based [continuous integration](~/build/index.md) and [automated UI testing](~/test-cloud/index.md) services without affecting your HockeyApp workflow.

* App Center's **Distribute** service works alongside HockeyApp. Upload and distribute your new releases using App Center, all while automatically syncing with your HockeyApp account. [More details here](~/migration/hockeyapp/distribution.md)

* App Center's **Crashes** and **Analytics** services will automatically stream data collected from your existing HockeyApp SDK directly into App Center. Note that the App Center Crash service is currently in preview for HockeyApp apps. You can join the preview on the Crash page in App Center to begin collecting crash data. 
  <!-- Read more about HockeyApp [Crashes](~/migration/hockeyapp/crashes.md) and [Analytics](~/migration/hockeyapp/analytics.md) inside App Center. -->

### Limitations

* During this period, all app management (Collaborators, renaming app, deleting app, etc) will remain in HockeyApp. To easily access the HockeyApp version, click the link in the upper, right-hand corner of the 'Getting Started' page in your app.

## Migrating to App Center

We're still working on the specific timing, but once we're there, you can start officially migrating all of your apps, data, organizations, and users with the click of a button. This will make App Center the official owner of your apps.

This will also be the moment when you can migrate your apps to the new App Center SDK. The App Center SDK is built to be faster and more modular than the HockeySDK. Ship the App Center SDK in a future release, and still receive data from the HockeyApp SDK in App Center from past releases. You’ll have a full year to transition SDKs at your own pace.

Commit message:

Additional SxS page updates
Updated structure, inclusion of new pages with more detailed information on SxS experience. Updated TOC to reflect chagns.

docs/migration/hockeyapp/index.md, after:

---
title: "HockeyApp Migration"
description: Migrating from HockeyApp to App Center
author: gaknoll
ms.author: gaknoll
ms.date: 09/26/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: A5AB2B92-0616-4F41-A0E7-43FD3C778059
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# HockeyApp Transition

App Center is the future home for your HockeyApp apps. We’ve spent the last year bringing HockeyApp’s Distribution, Crash Reporting, and Analytics services to App Center. But we didn’t stop there. We continued to build exciting next-generation features - such as auto-provisioning and public app store integrations - that make App Center even better than HockeyApp. At some point in the future we will be announcing the shutdown date of HockeyApp. At the time of the announcement, customers will have one year to complete their move to App Center. We are committed to making this process simple and seamless for you. 

## Your HockeyApp apps & data in App Center - Available Today

To help make this transition as easy as possible for you, we’ve created what we call our side-by-side experience. With the side-by-side experience, we’ve synced your HockeyApp apps with App Center. This allows you to explore and interact with App Center using your HockeyApp apps. Work in App Center, or in both App Center and HockeyApp as you normally would. Changes in one will be reflected in the other. To get started with the side-by-side experience, simply [sign-in](https://appcenter.ms/login?utm_medium=referral_link&utm_source=Hockey%20App) to App Center using your existing HockeyApp credentials. 

Learn more about the side-by-side experience [here](~/migration/hockeyapp/side-by-side.md). 

## Completing your migration to App Center

We are currently working on the migration experience that will allow you to start moving your apps completely from HockeyApp to App Center. Once available, you’ll be able to start officially migrating your apps with the click of a button. This will also be the moment when you can migrate your apps to the new App Center SDK. The App Center SDK is built to be faster and more modular than the HockeySDK. Ship the App Center SDK in a future release, and still receive data from the HockeyApp SDK in App Center from past releases. Follow our [transition](https://www.hockeyapp.net/appcenter/transition/) page for the latest updates.
