vs-mobile-center-docs/sdk/other-apis/uwp.md, before:

---
title: Other UWP APIs
description: Other APIs in the Mobile Center SDK for UWP
keywords: sdk
author: guperrot
ms.author: guperrot
ms.date: 07/27/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 47b5da40-70fd-468b-a9a9-05a266b7fa7b
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: uwp
---

# Other UWP APIs

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

## Adjust the log level

You can control the amount of log messages that show up from Mobile Center in the console. Use the `LogLevel`-API to enable additional logging while debugging. By default, it is set to `ASSERT` for the App Store environments and `WARN` otherwise.

To have as many log messages as possible, use `LogLevel.Verbose`.

```csharp
MobileCenter.LogLevel = LogLevel.Verbose;
```

## Identify installations

The Mobile Center SDK creates a UUID for each device once the app is installed. This identifier remains the same for a device when the app is updated and a new one is generated only when the app is re-installed. The following API is useful for debugging purposes.

```csharp
System.Guid installId = await MobileCenter.GetInstallIdAsync();
```

## Disable all services at runtime

If you want to disable all Mobile Center services at once, use the `Enabled` property. When disabled, the SDK will not forward any information to Mobile Center.

```csharp
MobileCenter.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable all services at once again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
MobileCenter.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

You don't need to await this call to make other API calls (such as `IsEnabledAsync`) consistent.

## Check if Mobile Center is enabled

You can also check if Mobile Center is enabled or not.

```csharp
bool enabled = await MobileCenter.IsEnabledAsync();
```

## Use custom properties

Mobile Center allows you to define custom properties as key value pairs in your app. You may use custom properties for various purposes. For instance, you can use custom properties to segment your users, and then send push notifications to a specific [audience](~/push/audiences.md).

You can set custom properties by calling the `SetCustomProperties()` API. A valid key for custom property should match regular expression pattern `^[a-zA-Z][a-zA-Z0-9]*$`. A custom property's value may be one of the following C# datatypes: `string`, `int`, `long`, `double`, `float`, `decimal`, `bool` and `DateTime`.

```csharp
CustomProperties properties = new CustomProperties();
properties.Set("color", "blue").Set("score", 10).Set("now", DateTime.UtcNow);
MobileCenter.SetCustomProperties(properties);
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you set the same custom property more than once, previous values will be overwritten by the last one.

You may remove any custom property by calling the `Clear()` API. This will only remove the value of the property for a device. It will not remove the property name from Mobile Center portal.

```csharp
CustomProperties properties = new CustomProperties();
properties.Set("color", "blue").Set("score", 10).Clear("score");
MobileCenter.SetCustomProperties(properties);
```

Commit message:

Dotnet SDK version (#299)
* Dotnet SDK version

* Up date

* Up date

vs-mobile-center-docs/sdk/other-apis/uwp.md, after:

---
title: Other UWP APIs
description: Other APIs in the Mobile Center SDK for UWP
keywords: sdk
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 10/31/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 47b5da40-70fd-468b-a9a9-05a266b7fa7b
ms.service: mobile-center
ms.custom: sdk
ms.tgt_pltfrm: uwp
---

# Other UWP APIs

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [Android](android.md)
> * [iOS](ios.md)
> * [React Native](react-native.md)
> * [UWP](uwp.md)
> * [Xamarin](xamarin.md)

## Adjust the log level

You can control the amount of log messages that show up from Mobile Center in the console. Use the `LogLevel`-API to enable additional logging while debugging. By default, it is set to `ASSERT` for the App Store environments and `WARN` otherwise.

To have as many log messages as possible, use `LogLevel.Verbose`.

```csharp
MobileCenter.LogLevel = LogLevel.Verbose;
```

## Identify installations

The Mobile Center SDK creates a UUID for each device once the app is installed. This identifier remains the same for a device when the app is updated and a new one is generated only when the app is re-installed. The following API is useful for debugging purposes.

```csharp
System.Guid installId = await MobileCenter.GetInstallIdAsync();
```

## Disable all services at runtime

If you want to disable all Mobile Center services at once, use the `Enabled` property. When disabled, the SDK will not forward any information to Mobile Center.

```csharp
MobileCenter.SetEnabledAsync(false);
```

To enable all services at once again, use the same API but pass `true` as a parameter.

```csharp
MobileCenter.SetEnabledAsync(true);
```

You don't need to await this call to make other API calls (such as `IsEnabledAsync`) consistent.

## Check if Mobile Center is enabled

You can also check if Mobile Center is enabled or not.

```csharp
bool enabled = await MobileCenter.IsEnabledAsync();
```

## Check Mobile Center SDK version at runtime

You can get the version of Mobile Center SDK that you are currently using.

```csharp
MobileCenter.SdkVersion;
```

## Use custom properties

Mobile Center allows you to define custom properties as key value pairs in your app. You may use custom properties for various purposes. For instance, you can use custom properties to segment your users, and then send push notifications to a specific [audience](~/push/audiences.md).

You can set custom properties by calling the `SetCustomProperties()` API. A valid key for custom property should match regular expression pattern `^[a-zA-Z][a-zA-Z0-9]*$`. A custom property's value may be one of the following C# datatypes: `string`, `int`, `long`, `double`, `float`, `decimal`, `bool` and `DateTime`.

```csharp
CustomProperties properties = new CustomProperties();
properties.Set("color", "blue").Set("score", 10).Set("now", DateTime.UtcNow);
MobileCenter.SetCustomProperties(properties);
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you set the same custom property more than once, previous values will be overwritten by the last one.

You may remove any custom property by calling the `Clear()` API. This will only remove the value of the property for a device. It will not remove the property name from Mobile Center portal.

```csharp
CustomProperties properties = new CustomProperties();
properties.Set("color", "blue").Set("score", 10).Clear("score");
MobileCenter.SetCustomProperties(properties);
```
