docs/sdk/index.md, before:

---
title: App Center SDK Documentation
description: Using the App Center SDK
keywords: sdk
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 07/25/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 278e0ad2-1616-4a3c-907a-092b57c81e96
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
---

# App Center SDK

App Center is your continuous integration, delivery and learning solution for iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS apps.
Get faster release cycles, higher-quality apps, and the insights to build what users want.

## App Center Services

The App Center SDKs use a modular architecture so you can use any or all of the services below. To learn more about how each service works for your platform, check out the in-depth documentation.

### App Center Analytics

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count, device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to your business. All the information captured is available in the App Center portal for you to analyze the data.

### App Center Auth

App Center Auth is a cloud-based identity management service that enables developers to authenticate application users and manage user identities. The service integrates with other parts of App Center, enabling developers to leverage the user identity to view user data in other services and even send push notifications to users instead of individual devices. App Center Auth is powered by [Azure Active Directory B2C](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/).

### App Center Crashes

App Center Crashes will automatically generate a crash log every time your app crashes. The log is first written to the device's storage and when the user starts the app again, the crash log will be sent to App Center. Collecting crashes works for both beta and live apps, i.e. those submitted to the App Store or Google Play. Crash logs contain valuable information for you to help fix the crash.

### App Center Data

App Center Data is a data synchronization and storage solution that enables you to persist, manage, and sync application data across multiple devices and platforms, all in the cloud. Using the client SDKs, you can create a seamless experience around your data, tying it to users by identity via App Center Auth and even create experiences pertaining to both online and offline scenarios in your app.  App Center Data is powered by [Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/introduction) ensuring low latency, high availability, and global availability of your data.

### App Center Distribute

The App Center SDK will let your users install a new version of the app when you distribute it via App Center. With a new version of the app available, the SDK will present an update dialog to the users to either download or postpone the update. Once they chose to update, the SDK starts to update your application. This feature will NOT work if your app is deployed to the app store.

### App Center Push

App Center Push enables you to send push notifications to users of your app from the App Center portal.

## Get started

* [App Center SDK for Android](getting-started/android.md)
* [App Center SDK for iOS](getting-started/ios.md)
* [App Center SDK for React Native](getting-started/react-native.md)
* [App Center SDK for Xamarin](getting-started/xamarin.md)
* [App Center SDK for Unity](getting-started/unity.md)
* [App Center SDK for UWP](getting-started/uwp.md)
* [App Center SDK for WPF/WinForms](getting-started/wpf-winforms.md)
* [App Center SDK for macOS](getting-started/macos.md)
* [App Center SDK for tvOS](getting-started/tvos.md)
* [App Center SDK for Apache Cordova](getting-started/cordova.md)

## Requirements

The tables below show the required minimum supported versions of the different App Center services.

### Android

Android Studio 2.2 or later.

Service          | Android OS Version | API Level
-----------------|--------------------|-------------
Analytics        | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Auth             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Crashes          | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Data             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Distribute       | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Push             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later

### iOS

Service          | iOS Version     | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Auth             | 10.0 or later   | 10 and later
Crashes          | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Data             | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Distribute       | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Push             | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later

### Unity

Service    |  Unity version  | iOS Version  | Android Version            | UWP Windows Version
-----------|-----------------|--------------|----------------------------|---------------------
Analytics  | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.10240 or later
Crashes    | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.15063 or later
Distribute | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| not available
Push       | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.10240 or later

### Windows UWP

Service          | Windows Version    | Visual Studio
-----------------|--------------------|----------------------------
Analytics        | 10 build 10240     | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Crashes          | not available      | not available
Distribute       | not available      | not available
Push             | 10 build 10240     | Visual Studio 2015 or later

### WPF and WinForms

Service          | .NET Framework | .NET Core     | Windows Version | Visual Studio
-----------------|----------------|---------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 4.5 or later   | 3.0 or later  | 10 build 10240  | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Crashes          | 4.5 or later   | 3.0 or later  | 10 build 10240  | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Distribute       | not available  | not available | not available   | not available
Push             | not available  | not available | not available   | not available

### React Native

Service    |  RN version   | iOS Version              | Android Version
-----------|---------------|--------------------------|----------------------------
Analytics  | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Crashes    | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Distribute | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Push       | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later

### macOS

Service          | macOS Version   | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later
Crashes          | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later
Push             | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later

### tvOS

Service          | tvOS Version    | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 11.0 or later   | 10 and later
Crashes          | 11.0 or later   | 10 and later

### Apache Cordova 

Service    |  AC CLI version      | iOS Version     | Android Version
-----------|----------------------|-----------------|----------------
Analytics  | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Crashes    | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Distribute | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Push       | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later

## Source Code and Release Notes

The App Center SDKs are open-source and available publicly on GitHub:

* [App Center SDK for Android code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android/releases)
* [App Center SDK for iOS and macOS code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/releases)
* [App Center SDK for React Native code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-React-Native) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-React-Native/releases)
* [App Center SDK for Windows and Xamarin code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-DotNet) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-DotNet/releases)
* [App Center SDK for Apache Cordova code](https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-sdk-cordova) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-sdk-cordova/releases)

Commit message:

Mention it works only on Windows

docs/sdk/index.md, after:

---
title: App Center SDK Documentation
description: Using the App Center SDK
keywords: sdk
author: elamalani
ms.author: emalani
ms.date: 07/25/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 278e0ad2-1616-4a3c-907a-092b57c81e96
ms.service: vs-appcenter
ms.custom: sdk
---

# App Center SDK

App Center is your continuous integration, delivery and learning solution for iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS apps.
Get faster release cycles, higher-quality apps, and the insights to build what users want.

## App Center Services

The App Center SDKs use a modular architecture so you can use any or all of the services below. To learn more about how each service works for your platform, check out the in-depth documentation.

### App Center Analytics

App Center Analytics helps you understand user behavior and customer engagement to improve your app. The SDK automatically captures session count, device properties like model, OS version, etc. You can define your own custom events to measure things that matter to your business. All the information captured is available in the App Center portal for you to analyze the data.

### App Center Auth

App Center Auth is a cloud-based identity management service that enables developers to authenticate application users and manage user identities. The service integrates with other parts of App Center, enabling developers to leverage the user identity to view user data in other services and even send push notifications to users instead of individual devices. App Center Auth is powered by [Azure Active Directory B2C](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/).

### App Center Crashes

App Center Crashes will automatically generate a crash log every time your app crashes. The log is first written to the device's storage and when the user starts the app again, the crash log will be sent to App Center. Collecting crashes works for both beta and live apps, i.e. those submitted to the App Store or Google Play. Crash logs contain valuable information for you to help fix the crash.

### App Center Data

App Center Data is a data synchronization and storage solution that enables you to persist, manage, and sync application data across multiple devices and platforms, all in the cloud. Using the client SDKs, you can create a seamless experience around your data, tying it to users by identity via App Center Auth and even create experiences pertaining to both online and offline scenarios in your app.  App Center Data is powered by [Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/introduction) ensuring low latency, high availability, and global availability of your data.

### App Center Distribute

The App Center SDK will let your users install a new version of the app when you distribute it via App Center. With a new version of the app available, the SDK will present an update dialog to the users to either download or postpone the update. Once they chose to update, the SDK starts to update your application. This feature will NOT work if your app is deployed to the app store.

### App Center Push

App Center Push enables you to send push notifications to users of your app from the App Center portal.

## Get started

* [App Center SDK for Android](getting-started/android.md)
* [App Center SDK for iOS](getting-started/ios.md)
* [App Center SDK for React Native](getting-started/react-native.md)
* [App Center SDK for Xamarin](getting-started/xamarin.md)
* [App Center SDK for Unity](getting-started/unity.md)
* [App Center SDK for UWP](getting-started/uwp.md)
* [App Center SDK for WPF/WinForms](getting-started/wpf-winforms.md)
* [App Center SDK for macOS](getting-started/macos.md)
* [App Center SDK for tvOS](getting-started/tvos.md)
* [App Center SDK for Apache Cordova](getting-started/cordova.md)

## Requirements

The tables below show the required minimum supported versions of the different App Center services.

### Android

Android Studio 2.2 or later.

Service          | Android OS Version | API Level
-----------------|--------------------|-------------
Analytics        | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Auth             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Crashes          | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Data             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Distribute       | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later
Push             | 4.1 and later      | 16 and later

### iOS

Service          | iOS Version     | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Auth             | 10.0 or later   | 10 and later
Crashes          | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Data             | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Distribute       | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later
Push             | 9.0 or later    | 10 and later

### Unity

Service    |  Unity version  | iOS Version  | Android Version            | UWP Windows Version
-----------|-----------------|--------------|----------------------------|---------------------
Analytics  | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.10240 or later
Crashes    | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.15063 or later
Distribute | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| not available
Push       | 2017.1 or later | 9.0 or later | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later| 10.0.10240 or later

### Windows UWP

Service          | Windows Version    | Visual Studio
-----------------|--------------------|----------------------------
Analytics        | 10 build 10240     | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Crashes          | not available      | not available
Distribute       | not available      | not available
Push             | 10 build 10240     | Visual Studio 2015 or later

### WPF and WinForms

Service          | .NET Framework | .NET Core     | Windows Version | Visual Studio
-----------------|----------------|---------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 4.5 or later   | 3.0 or later  | 10 build 10240  | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Crashes          | 4.5 or later   | 3.0 or later  | 10 build 10240  | Visual Studio 2015 or later
Distribute       | not available  | not available | not available   | not available
Push             | not available  | not available | not available   | not available

.NET Core is supported only when the WPF/WinForms application runs on Windows.

### React Native

Service    |  RN version   | iOS Version              | Android Version
-----------|---------------|--------------------------|----------------------------
Analytics  | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Crashes    | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Distribute | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later
Push       | 0.34 or later | 9.0 or later & Cocoapods | 4.1 / API Level 16 or later

### macOS

Service          | macOS Version   | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later
Crashes          | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later
Push             | 10.9 or later   | 8.2 and later

### tvOS

Service          | tvOS Version    | Xcode
-----------------|-----------------|--------------
Analytics        | 11.0 or later   | 10 and later
Crashes          | 11.0 or later   | 10 and later

### Apache Cordova 

Service    |  AC CLI version      | iOS Version     | Android Version
-----------|----------------------|-----------------|----------------
Analytics  | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Crashes    | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Distribute | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later
Push       | 6.4.0 and later      | 4.3.0 and later | 4.1.0 and later

## Source Code and Release Notes

The App Center SDKs are open-source and available publicly on GitHub:

* [App Center SDK for Android code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Android/releases)
* [App Center SDK for iOS and macOS code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-Apple/releases)
* [App Center SDK for React Native code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-React-Native) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-React-Native/releases)
* [App Center SDK for Windows and Xamarin code](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-DotNet) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/AppCenter-SDK-DotNet/releases)
* [App Center SDK for Apache Cordova code](https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-sdk-cordova) and [release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/appcenter-sdk-cordova/releases)
