vs-mobile-center-docs/dashboard/creating-and-managing-organizations.md, before:

---
title: Creating and managing organizations
description: Using the dashboard to create and access app organizations in App Center.
keywords: dashboard organizations
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 04/07/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 904CF64B-3A9F-4BA9-AB4B-7D5176D93961
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# Creating and managing organizations

## Creating an organization

To create an organization, log in and click the **Add new** dropdown and choose **Add new organization**.

## Accessing organizations

All of your organizations are accessible in the left navigation.

## Organization roles

There are two roles within an organization:

* **Admins** can manage organization settings (e.g. change name, change permissions). Admins additionally have a 'Manager' app permission on all apps within the organization.

* **Collaborators** can create apps and participate in apps they belong to within organization.

To change the permission of a organization collaborator, select a user and then use the dropdown to re-assign the role. Only 'Admins' can change collaborator permissions.

> [!NOTE]
> When you create an organization, you automatically become an 'Admin'.

## Adding collaborators to an organization

There are two ways to add collaborators to an organization:

* Directly to the collaborators list
    * Select the organization, and then click on the **People** tab in the left navigation. Add collaborators by typing in the user's email address.
    * This gives the user access to the organization and allows the collaborator to create apps.
* In-directly through an app
    * Select an app within an organization and then click **Manage app**. Add collaborators by typing in the user's email address.
    * Adding a user from outside the organization to an app automatically adds them to the organization.

## Removing collaborator from organization

Select the organization, and then click on the **People** tab in the left navigation. Select the collaborator and then click **Remove from organization**. This action removes the user from all apps within the organization.

## Leaving an organization

To leave an organization, click on your avatar and navigate to **Settings**. From there, select **Organizations**. There you can click **Leave** on any organization you belong to.

> [!NOTE]
> If you the sole 'Admin' of an organization, you cannot leave the organization. You can either promote another collaborator to 'Admin' or delete the organization.

## Deleting an organization

To delete an organization, select the organization, and then click on **Manage**. From there, click on **Delete Organization**.

> [!NOTE]
> Only organization 'Admins' can delete organizations.

Commit message:

Org and teams (#373)
* Update creating-and-managing-organizations.md

* Update creating-and-managing-apps.md

* Update creating-and-managing-apps.md

* Update creating-and-managing-organizations.md

* Update creating-and-managing-organizations.md

* Update creating-and-managing-apps.md

vs-mobile-center-docs/dashboard/creating-and-managing-organizations.md, after:

---
title: Creating and managing organizations
description: Using the dashboard to create and access app organizations in App Center.
keywords: dashboard organizations
author: joemellin
ms.author: joemel
ms.date: 04/07/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 904CF64B-3A9F-4BA9-AB4B-7D5176D93961
ms.service: vs-appcenter
---

# Creating and managing organizations

## The benefits of organizations

As there are no fees associated with an organization, we recommend it for all commercial apps or apps with many collaborators.

Benefits of an org:
- Orgs can create teams of users and more easily control permissions to apps.

## Creating an organization

To create an organization, log in and click the **Add new** dropdown and choose **Add new organization**.

## Accessing organizations

All of your organizations are accessible in the left navigation.

## Organization roles

There are two roles within an organization:

* **Admins** can manage organization settings (e.g. change name, change permissions). Admins additionally have a 'Manager' app permission on all apps within the organization.

* **Collaborators** can create apps and participate in apps they belong to within organization.

To change the permission of a organization collaborator, select a user and then use the dropdown to re-assign the role. Only 'Admins' can change collaborator permissions.

> [!NOTE]
> When you create an organization, you automatically become an 'Admin'.

## Adding collaborators to an organization

There are two ways to add collaborators to an organization:

* Directly to the collaborators list
    * Select the organization, and then click on the **People** tab in the left navigation. Add collaborators by typing in the user's email address.
    * This gives the user access to the organization and allows the collaborator to create apps.
* In-directly through an app
    * Select an app within an organization and then click **Manage app**. Add collaborators by typing in the user's email address.
    * Adding a user from outside the organization to an app automatically adds them to the organization.

## Removing collaborator from organization

Select the organization, and then click on the **People** tab in the left navigation. Select the collaborator and then click **Remove from organization**. This action removes the user from all apps within the organization.

## Leaving an organization

To leave an organization, click on your avatar and navigate to **Settings**. From there, select **Organizations**. There you can click **Leave** on any organization you belong to.

> [!NOTE]
> If you the sole 'Admin' of an organization, you cannot leave the organization. You can either promote another collaborator to 'Admin' or delete the organization.

## Deleting an organization

To delete an organization, select the organization, and then click on **Manage**. From there, click on **Delete Organization**.

> [!NOTE]
> Only organization 'Admins' can delete organizations.
